2023
UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION
DOCUMENT
Partner for a digital and sustainable world

The information from the Annual Financial Report is identified in this table of contents by the AFR symbol1
2
3
4
56
7
8AFR
AFR
AFR
AFR
AFRAFR
AFR
AFR
AFR
AFR
AFR
AFR
AFR
AFR
AFR
AFR
AFR
AFR
AFRAFR
AFR
AFR
AFR
AFR
AFRPresentation of the Group and its activities         5
11 ——   Capgemini group fundamental  6
12 ——   Unique assets in a constantly changing market  12
13 ——   A strategy to support long‑term growth 17
14 ——   An agile business 21
15 ——   Solid performance in 2023 25
Corporate Governance                               33
21 ——   Company management and administration  35
22 ——   Organization and activities of the Board of 
Directors  72
23 ——		Compensation	of	corporate	officers	 85
Risks and Internal Control                         109
31 ——   Risk management and internal control systems  110
32 ——  Risk factors  117
33 ——   Insurance  135
Our ESG commitment as a responsible leader    137
41 ——   Capgemini ESG pledge: leveraging technology 
for	the	benefit	of	all	 139
42 ——   Environment: managing sustainability challenges  156
43 ——   Social: aligned entrepreneurs with protection 
&	respect	for	all	 192
44 ——  Governance: leading with trust and transparency 236
45 ——   Compliance with duty of care legislation 
(Devoir de vigilance)  251
46 ——   Reporting scopes and methodologies  253
47 ——   External Report on the Déclaration de 
performance extra‑financière  266
Financial information                               271
51 ——   Analysis of Capgemini group consolidated results  272
52 ——   Consolidated accounts  277
53 ——		Comments	on	the	Capgemini SE	financial 	
statements  337
54 ——  2023 Financial Statements 341
55 ——	 Other	financial	and	accounting	information	 368Capgemini and its shareholders                   369
61 ——   Capgemini share capital  370
62 ——   Capgemini and the stock market 375
63 ——		Current	share	ownership	and	voting	rights	 378
64 ——		Share	buyback	program	 380
65 ——		Communication 	with	shareholders 	 381
Report of the Board of Directors and draft 
resolutions to be presented at the Combined 
Shareholders’ Meeting of May 16, 2024             383
71 ——   Resolutions presented at the Ordinary 
Shareholders’ 	Meeting 	 384
72 ——   Resolutions presented at the Extraordinary 
Shareholders’ 	Meeting 	 396
73 ——   Supplementary report of the Board of Directors 
on the issuance of shares under the Capgemini 
Group “ESOP 2023” employee shareholding plan 
and Statutory auditors’ report 416
74 ——   Statutory auditors’ special report 423
Additional Information                            429
81 ——   Legal information  430
82 ——   Historical Financial Information for 2021 and 2022  433
83 ——   Persons responsible for the information  434
Cross-Reference Table                              435
91 ——   Information required by Annex I of Delegated 
Regulation	(EU)	2019/980	of	March	14,	2019	 436
92 ——   Cross ‑Reference Table for the Annual Financial 
Report	 438
93 ——   Cross ‑Reference Table for the Management 
Report	 4399

1
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINICapgemini is a global leader in partnering with 
companies to transform and manage their business 
by harnessing the power of technology. The Group 
is guided everyday by its purpose of unleashing 
human energy through technology for an inclusive 
and sustainable future. It is a responsible and 
diverse organization of over 340,000 team 
members in more than 50 countries. 
With its strong over 55-year heritage and deep 
industry expertise, Capgemini is trusted by its 
clients to address the entire breadth of their 
business needs, from strategy and design to 
operations, fueled by the fast evolving and 
innovative world of cloud, data, AI, connectivity, 
software, digital engineering and platforms. 
The Group reported in 2023 global revenues of 
€22.5 billion euros.
Get The Future You Want | www.capgemini.com
This Universal Registration Document is a reproduction in PDF format of the official version 
of the Universal Registration Document prepared in accordance with the European Single 
Electronic Format and filed with the AMF on March  29, 2024, available on the AMF website . 
This reproduction is available on our website .

2
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENTAMERICAS EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST  
AND AFRICAOVER
50 
COUNTRIESMORE THAN
160 
NATIONALITIES340,000 
PEOPLE
ASIA PACIFICA NET ZERO  
BUSINESS BY 2040
(1) Score obtained through regular assessment of contractually defined clients’ expectations.
(2) Operating margin is one of the Group’s key performance indicators. It is defined as the difference between  
 revenues and operating costs, and calculated before “Other operating income and expenses.”
(3) Organic free cash flow is equal to cash flow from operations less acquisitions of property, plant, equipment and intangible  
assets (net of disposals) and repayments of lease liabilities, adjusted for cash out relating to the net interest cost.A GLOBAL LEADER
AND STRATEGIC PARTNER
FOR COMPANIES
30,000 
PEOPLE129,000 
PEOPLE181,000 
PEOPLEStrategy & Transformation
Application & Technology
Engineering
Operations
Honesty
Boldness
Trust
Freedom
Modesty
Team spirit
FunMEMBER OF THE
DJSI 
EUROPE INDEX
30% 
OF WOMEN IN LEADERSHIP 
POSITIONS IN 2025   OUR BUSINESSES   CLIENT SATISFACTION LEVEL  
ON CONTRACTS      OUR PEOPLE  
   OUR RESULTS  
  OUR RATINGS AND COMMITMENTS  
  OUR SEVEN VALUES  A 
IN CDP’S “CLIMATE  
CHANGE 2023” SCORING33.9 
AVERAGE AGE OF EMPLOYEES
26.2% 
OF WOMEN IN LEADERSHIP POSITIONS
AROUND
8.9% 
OF THE CAPITAL IS OWNED  
BY EMPLOYEESREVENUES
€22,522mOPERATING MARGIN(2)
13.3%
17.8m  
HOURS OF EMPLOYEE TRAINING 4.2/5 
CLIENT SATISFACTION LEVEL(1)
+4.4% 
YEAR-ON-YEAR  
AT CONSTANT CURRENCY+30 
BASIS POINTS 
YEAR-ON-YEAR
ORGANIC FREE CASH FLOW(3)
€1,963m

3
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINIAMERICAS EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST  
AND AFRICAOVER
50 
COUNTRIESMORE THAN
160 
NATIONALITIES340,000 
PEOPLE
ASIA PACIFICA NET ZERO  
BUSINESS BY 2040
(1) Score obtained through regular assessment of contractually defined clients’ expectations.
(2) Operating margin is one of the Group’s key performance indicators. It is defined as the difference between  
 revenues and operating costs, and calculated before “Other operating income and expenses.”
(3) Organic free cash flow is equal to cash flow from operations less acquisitions of property, plant, equipment and intangible  
assets (net of disposals) and repayments of lease liabilities, adjusted for cash out relating to the net interest cost.A GLOBAL LEADER
AND STRATEGIC PARTNER
FOR COMPANIES
30,000 
PEOPLE129,000 
PEOPLE181,000 
PEOPLEStrategy & Transformation
Application & Technology
Engineering
Operations
Honesty
Boldness
Trust
Freedom
Modesty
Team spirit
FunMEMBER OF THE
DJSI 
EUROPE INDEX
30% 
OF WOMEN IN LEADERSHIP 
POSITIONS IN 2025   OUR BUSINESSES   CLIENT SATISFACTION LEVEL  
ON CONTRACTS      OUR PEOPLE  
   OUR RESULTS  
  OUR RATINGS AND COMMITMENTS  
  OUR SEVEN VALUES  A 
IN CDP’S “CLIMATE  
CHANGE 2023” SCORING33.9 
AVERAGE AGE OF EMPLOYEES
26.2% 
OF WOMEN IN LEADERSHIP POSITIONS
AROUND
8.9% 
OF THE CAPITAL IS OWNED  
BY EMPLOYEESREVENUES
€22,522mOPERATING MARGIN(2)
13.3%
17.8m  
HOURS OF EMPLOYEE TRAINING 4.2/5 
CLIENT SATISFACTION LEVEL(1)
+4.4% 
YEAR-ON-YEAR  
AT CONSTANT CURRENCY+30 
BASIS POINTS 
YEAR-ON-YEAR
ORGANIC FREE CASH FLOW(3)
€1,963m

4
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT

5
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI111 ——  CAPGEMINI GROUP FUNDAMENTAL  6
111   Group history 6
112   Seven values at the heart of our ethical culture 7
113   Our Businesses 8
114		An	agile	and	innovative	portfolio	of	offerings	 8
115   Sector expertise 9
116   Recognized Achievements 10
12 ——  UNIQUE ASSETS IN A CONSTANTLY CHANGING MARKET  12
121   A dynamic global services market 12
122   Market trends 12
123   A demanding competitive environment 14
124   Partners and ecosystem of partners 15
13 ——  A STRATEGY TO SUPPORT LONG‑TERM GROWTH  17
131   Value creation drivers 17
132   An adapted investment policy 21
133		Financing	policy	and	financial	rating	 21
14 ——  AN AGILE BUSINESS  21
141		The	main	subsidiaries	and	a	simplified	Group	organizational	chart	 21
142   A client‑focused organization 23
143   Innovation at the heart of Capgemini’s organization 24
15 ——  SOLID PERFORMANCE IN 2023  25
151   Recognized Publications 25
152   Major contratcs won in 2023 28
153   Financial highlights 30
154		Extra-financial	highlights	 31PRESENTATION OF  
THE GROUP AND  
ITS ACTIVITIES

PresenTATIon oF The GrouP And ITs ACTIvITIes
Capgemini group fundamental
6
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT111  Capgemini group fundamental
111  Group history
From 1967 to today, the milestones of a world leader
Founded in 1967 by Mr. Serge Kampf in Grenoble, the Group has 
developed around principles which continue to guide us today: an 
entrepreneurial spirit, followed by a passion for clients, an obsession 
with getting the best from people, extremely high -performance 
expectations, and a commitment to being ethically irreproachable 
at all times.Now, led by Mr. Aiman Ezzat and chaired by Mr. Paul Hermelin, 
Capgemini has 340,000 employees and it operates in more than 
50 countries. As in 1967, Capgemini still has the same passion: 
helping businesses to be more efficient, innovative, and agile 
through technology.
1967 -1974 |  The rise of an entrepreneurial spirit
1967 Mr. Serge Kampf founds Sogeti, an IT services company, in Grenoble.
1970 The visionary Sogeti is the first IT services company in Europe to offer organizational Consulting Services.
1974 The first acquisitions with the purchase of two competitors: CAP (France) and Gemini Computer Systems (USA).
1975 -1989 |  expansion
1975 Sogeti becomes Cap Gemini Sogeti, the European leader in IT services, with 2,000 employees.
1976  SESA, the French IT services company specializing in system integration (which will join the Group in 1987), develops TRANSPAC, 
the first public European data transmission network.
1978 Cap Gemini Sogeti launches on the US market and creates Cap Gemini Inc. in Washington.
1985 Cap Gemini Sogeti is listed on the Paris Stock Market: the share price surges +25% in just five days.
1987  Acquisition of SESA, the French IT services company. Cap Gemini Sogeti had already held a 42% stake in the Company since 1982.
1990 -1997 |  Pursuing leadership
1990 Cap Gemini Sogeti acquires the UK company Hoskyns, the European leader in managed services.
1992  Just two years later, Cap Gemini Sogeti becomes the European leader in its sector following successive acquisitions of the Dutch 
company Volmac – recognized at the time as the most profitable IT services company in Europe – and Programmator, one of 
the largest IT services companies in Sweden.
1996 Name change to Cap Gemini – removing the Company’s original name (Sogeti).
1998 -2001 |  emergence of a global champion
1998 Multinational contract signed with General Motors to develop new client/server systems in 42 countries.
2000 Cap Gemini acquires the consulting arm of Ernst & Young, with integration proving more difficult than expected. The Group 
opens its first offshore delivery center in Mumbai, India. Cap Gemini now has over 50,000 employees.
2002 -2009 |  new horizons
2002 Mr. Paul Hermelin, who had worked alongside Mr. Serge Kampf since 1993, becomes Group CEO. The Sogeti name returns with 
the creation of a subsidiary specializing in local IT services.
2003 The Group signs one of the largest outsourcing contracts in its history with the UK’s Inland Revenue.
2007  The Group closes another key acquisition with Kanbay International. This US IT services company specializing in Financial Services 
has a significant presence in India (7,000 employees). The Group now has 12,000 employees in India. In 2007, Capgemini also 
marks its commitment to rugby by becoming the official sponsor of the World Cup in France.
Since 2010 |  An industry leader
2010  Capgemini, now operating in 30 countries, launches in South America with the acquisition of CPM Braxis, the Brazilian IT services 
company. The Group now has over 100,000 employees worldwide.
2012  45 years after creating the Group, Mr. Serge Kampf stands down as Capgemini Chairman and passes the torch to Mr. Paul 
Hermelin, who becomes the Group’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
2015 Capgemini acquires the US company IGATE and significantly reinforces its presence in the US and India.
2016 Mr. Serge Kampf passes away at the age of 81 in Grenoble, where he had created Capgemini 49 years previously.
2017 Capgemini launches its new brand identity on its 50 -year anniversary.
 The Group reinforces the flagship Digital and Cloud businesses with the targeted acquisitions of Itelios, TCube Solutions, Idean 
and Lyons Consulting Group.
2018  Capgemini creates Capgemini Invent, a new line of global services dedicated to digital innovation, consulting and transformation.
 The Group becomes the Global Innovation Partner  of the men’s and women’s HSBC World Rugby Sevens Series.

PresenTATIon oF The GrouP And ITs ACTIvITIes
Capgemini group fundamental
7
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI12019 Capgemini acquires Leidos Cyber and strengthens its cybersecurity services and solutions.
 Capgemini signs a contract worth over €1bn with the Bayer AG Group, to transform its IT landscape and accelerate the digital 
transformation of its organization.
2020  Mr. Aiman Ezzat succeeds Mr. Paul Hermelin as the Chief Executive Officer of Capgemini. Mr. Paul Hermelin retains the 
Chairmanship of the Board of Directors.
 Capgemini unveils its purpose: “Unleashing human energy through technology for an inclusive and sustainable future”.
2021 A record year during which Capgemini makes great strides towards its 2025 ambitions. The Group completes the acquisition of 
Altran bringing together its engineering and R&D expertise. The year marked a milestone for the Group in sustainability, with 
the unveiling of an ambitious new ESG policy covering climate change, investing in human capital and responsible governance.
 The Group extends its global footprint with four acquisitions in the APAC region.
2022  The Group reinforces its positioning as a leading business and technology transformation partner creating tangible business value 
for its clients, helping them to meet their most pressing challenges – including how to become more sustainable companies. 
It is one of the first companies to have its net zero targets validated by the SBTi (Science Based Target Initiative).
 Capgemini reached 360,000 employees in 2022. The Group boosts its key expertise in consulting, design, and financial services 
with a number of strategic acquisitions, while expanding its geographic reach in North America and APAC.
2023  2023 was another year of growth for the Group with improving profitability and a strong cash flow conversion, despite a 
slowdown in our industry. Our results illustrate the strength of our positioning, our agility and our resilience.
 This year was marked by the GEN AI breakthrough and the Group made a strong commitment, including a €2 billion investment 
to build its leadership which includes the doubling of Capgemini Data and AI teams to 60,000 over the next three years. With 
partners including Google and Microsoft, the Group launched a Generative AI Lab for greater agility in responding to client 
needs.
 Capgemini continues to expand through targeted acquisitions: BTC Corporation, a leading cloud and Digital services provider 
in Japan, and the Financial Crime Compliance (FCC) division of exiger,  a global market leading financial crime practice in 
new York and expanded its semiconductor capabilities in global silicon engineering with the acquisition of HDL Design House.
 2023 has also been the year of sports sponsorship for Capgemini reinforcing its brand visibility putting its technological expertise 
at the service of Rugby World Cup; Ryder Cup and Peugeot Sport.
112  Seven values at the heart of our ethical culture
Since the creation of the Group by Serge Kampf in 1967, seven core 
values inspire our team members and guide our decision -making 
and actions. They shape the ethical business practices and culture 
of which we are proud.
honesty  signifies loyalty, integrity, uprightness, a complete refusal 
to use any underhanded method to help win business or gain any 
kind of advantage. Neither growth nor profit nor independence have 
any real worth unless they are won through complete honesty and 
probity. And everyone in the Group knows that any lack of openness 
and integrity in our business dealings will be penalized at once.
Boldness  implies a flair for entrepreneurship and a desire to take 
considered risks and show commitment (naturally linked to a firm 
determination to uphold one’s commitments). This is the very soul 
of competitiveness: firmness in making decisions or in forcing their 
implementation, an acceptance periodically to challenge one’s 
orientations and the status quo .
Trust , meaning the willingness to empower both individuals and 
teams; to have decisions made as close as possible to the point 
where they will be put into practice. Trust also means giving priority, 
within the Group, to real openness toward other people and the 
widest possible sharing of ideas and information.
Freedom  means independence in thought, judgment and deeds, 
and entrepreneurial spirit, creativity. It also means tolerance, 
respect for others, for different cultures and customs: an essential 
quality in an international group.Fun signifies feeling good about being part of the Group or one’s team, 
feeling proud of what one does, feeling a sense of accomplishment 
in the search for better quality and greater efficiency, feeling part 
of a challenging project.
Modesty,  that is simplicity, is the very opposite of affectation, 
pretension, pomposity, arrogance, and boastfulness. Simplicity is 
about being discreet, showing natural modesty, common sense, 
being attentive to others and taking the trouble to be understood 
by them. It is about being frank in work relationships, having a 
relaxed attitude and a sense of humor.
Team spirit,  meaning solidarity, friendship, fidelity, generosity, 
fairness in sharing the benefits of collective work; accepting 
responsibilities and having an instinctive willingness to support 
common efforts when the storm is raging.
With our values guiding our decisions and actions, our Group 
seeks to build trusting, sustainable business relations with all 
stakeholders, extending the benefits of our ethical culture to the 
ecosystems in which we operate.
For us, technology promises progress. We are committed to 
being a reference in terms of contribution to society, for our own 
activities and for those of our clients, by promoting sustainability, 
diversity, equal opportunities, and digital inclusion. Our values 
inspire both our belief that digital transformation must benefit 
all humanity, and the ethical behaviors that help us achieve our 
purpose: “Unleashing human energy through technology for an 
inclusive and sustainable future”.

PresenTATIon oF The GrouP And ITs ACTIvITIes
Capgemini group fundamental
8
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT1113  Our Businesses
 —  strategy & Transformation
Capgemini Invent is the Group’s digital innovation, design, and 
transformation brand that helps decision makers design and build 
the future of their organizations. Capgemini’s expertise builds on 
the know-how of our brands frog and Cambridge Consultants, 
both part of Capgemini Invent. frog partners with global brands 
and ventures to drive customer-centric transformations at scale 
through innovative and human-centric design work. Cambridge 
Consultants is the innovation specialist in the development of 
products and services.
 —  Applications & Technology
Capgemini helps clients to develop, modernize, extend, and secure 
their IT and digital environment, using the latest technologies. 
Our teams design and develop technological solutions and help 
our clients to optimize and maintain their applications for agile 
operations. Through its subsidiary Sogeti, part of Capgemini, the Group develops, tests, and safeguards innovative applications for 
businesses, relying on its expertise in four areas: consulting, testing, 
agile and cloud development, and cybersecurity.
 —  engineering
Capgemini Engineering helps innovative organizations around the 
world unleash their R&D potential and engineer the products and 
services of tomorrow thanks to the latest digital and software 
technologies.
 —  operations
This business line comprises the Group’s Business Services (including 
Business Process Outsourcing and transactional services), as 
well as installation and maintenance services for our clients’ IT 
infrastructures, whether in data centers or in the cloud. Through 
Business Process Outsourcing and managed services of applications, 
these services offer our clients greater efficiency, and operational 
and technological excellence.
114  An agile and innovative portfolio of offerings
To help our clients address their challenges, Capgemini constantly 
adapts and transforms its service portfolio.
The sustained pace of change in client needs and technology has 
encouraged Capgemini to implement an agile and innovative 
management of its offer portfolio to continually anticipate market 
developments: Customer First, Intelligent Industry, and Enterprise 
Management. To achieve this goal, we rely on two pillars essential 
to all forms of digital transformation – data and cloud – and place 
the main issues of cybersecurity and sustainable development at 
the center of this transformation.
All our offers are founded on the various services proposed by the 
Group: strategy, transformation to new business and commercial 
models, solutions, Engineering Services, integration services, 
maintenance services and business -process management services 
for clients.
Three playing fields
Customer First
Customer First focuses on transforming the experience that our 
clients deliver to their customers, including the value of their 
products and services, and the quality of each customer interaction.
Intelligent Industry
Intelligent Industry addresses the digital transformation of the value 
chain, from the design and development of intelligent products 
and services to intelligent supply chain, extending to the smart 
manufacturing of products and intelligent service operations.
enterprise Management
Enterprise Management focuses on transforming the processes, 
teams, solutions and operations in order to run enterprises with 
greater agility and operational efficiency and therefore offer a 
seamless, personalized experience to employees.Two pillars
Data & Artificial Intelligence (AI)
Thanks to the Group’s ability to develop and implement use 
cases, using analytics and AI services and deploy large -scale data 
management and processing platforms and effective data governance 
and management, our customers can transform themselves, across 
business domains, in an ethical and sustainable fashion, drawing 
significant business and operational benefits.
Cloud
We help our clients adopt a cloud -first strategy. Acting as a strategic 
lever of transformation, the cloud enables our clients to transform 
their IT and security, implement their data strategy, and develop 
innovative services for their customers. It also allows them to 
increase the agility of their business management systems.
Two enablers
Cybersecurity
The cybersecurity offer provides the Group’s clients with a complete 
portfolio of specialized services in governance, protection, detection, 
and response to cyberattacks, with the aim of safeguarding 
traditional computing, as well as cloud, connected objects, and 
industrial systems.
sustainability
Lastly, the Sustainability offerings, and especially services around 
helping clients reduce their carbon footprint, are fully part of our 
Group’s priorities. We offer our clients a complete portfolio of 
services that enables them to define their sustainability strategy and 
make commitments, identify operational levers for implementing 
this strategy, and measure results.

PresenTATIon oF The GrouP And ITs ACTIvITIes
Capgemini group fundamental
9
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI1115  Sector expertise
The Group cultivates expertise across seven major sectors. Over the 
years, Capgemini has strengthened its expertise and organization 
to better meet the needs of its clients while offering solutions on 
the cutting edge of innovation.
 —  Consumer Goods, r etail and distribution
Consumers are commanding the spotlight; they want to engage with 
brands in increasingly personalized, intelligent, and digital ways. 
Capgemini guides clients through the rapidly changing business, 
technology and environmental context. The Group works with 
consumer products companies, retailers and distributors to create 
a transformative digital vision and roadmap for their business.
 —  energy & u tilities
Energy and utilities companies are facing an unprecedented 
level of change as these industries embark upon the energy 
transition. New players have entered the market creating new, 
more effective business models to explore the opportunities that 
sustainable energy sources and new technology have brought to 
business. Our industry -wide perspective is built to guide energy 
and utilities companies as they master these market shifts and 
technology -triggered trends.
 —  Financial s ervices (Banking, Capital Markets & Insurance)
Capgemini steers the digital and operational transformation 
of leading financial institutions. Focusing on open enterprises, 
data compliance, deep customer experience, and automation, 
Capgemini helps create scalable and flexible systems for our 
clients. We leverage the full breadth of Capgemini’s expertise 
to create end -to-end solutions and invent, build and run the 
intelligent technologies specific to this sector’s challenges. Using 
AI in particular, our solutions also help clients manage risks, ensure 
compliance with prevailing regulations and capitalize on the full 
potential of FinTechs.
 —  Manufacturing
With profitable growth at the top of the agenda, manufacturing 
companies (e.g. automotive, aerospace and defense) are striving 
to innovate faster, get closer to customers, and achieve a step 
change in operational efficiency. Clients expect end -to-end 
capabilities for a holistic transformation journey and the ability to 
make their operations more intelligent by leveraging the power 
of data. Capgemini’s extensive view of these industries combined 
with our diverse, knowledgeable teams, enables us to respond to 
client needs by building industry -specific, client -proven solutions 
that activate business growth platforms, while supporting them 
with their environmental challenges.Life sciences is one of Capgemini’s fastest -growing sectors. We 
work with leading brands in pharmaceuticals, medical devices, and 
consumer healthcare companies across the world to help clients 
transform their business and create more enriching experiences for 
their customers and patients. By aligning the expertise of its life 
science specialists, data scientists, and data engineers, Capgemini 
brings the power of data and artificial intelligence at scale to our 
life sciences clients.
 —  Public sector
Public sector organizations are addressing the great challenges 
of our time such as climate change or digital transformation. 
Digitalization is one of the keys to overcoming critical parts of 
these societal challenges. Capgemini has extensive experience 
of working with public sector organizations at all levels to deliver 
outcomes through digital transformation and citizen -led innovation. 
The Group provides proven solutions for modern and efficient 
digital government services. It supports organizations in the 
adoption of trusted cloud, contributes to a culture of transparent 
and data -driven government, and develops solutions that deliver 
sustainability objectives. The Group also helps clients preserve 
their sovereignty and independence in the digital realm. Capgemini 
brings deep global expertise in the domains of tax and customs, 
public security, public administration, welfare, defense, health, 
and social care.
 —  Telecommunications, Media & Technology
Capgemini is bringing innovation, creativity, and the domain expertise 
of our people to solve our telecom clients’ most pressing challenges. 
We provide end -to-end service across strategy, implementation 
and operations – all united by our market -leading technology, 
engineering, and data science capabilities.
The rapidly changing demands of a new generation of end -consumers 
are driving unprecedented disruption as companies strive to find 
ways of delivering immersive consumer experiences while they 
adapt to innovative and emerging technology platforms. From the 
growing importance of 5G for telecoms, to the evolving content 
consumption and distribution models for media and entertainment 
clients, to the speed of technological change for all players, Capgemini 
partners with clients to address the fast -moving challenges they 
are facing in these industries.
 —  services
The services industry is changing at an exponential pace as landmark 
shifts in technology are enabling more personalized and efficient 
customer interactions. From the hospitality industry to travel and 
transport, engineering and construction, and professional services 
in general, Capgemini builds a global approach with clients to 
accompany the digital transformation of their model and propose 
services that better reflect the expectations of their end -customers.

PresenTATIon oF The GrouP And ITs ACTIvITIes
Capgemini group fundamental
10
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT1116  Recognized Achievements
Capgemini received numerous awards in 2023 from technology partners as well as recognitions from analysts and independent bodies.
Partner Awards
Winner of six 2023 Microsoft Partner of the Year awards
Capgemini won six 2023 Microsoft Partner of the Year Awards, 
including two global awards – Microsoft SAP on Azure Partner 
of the Year and Microsoft GSI Growth Champion of the Year; 
and four regional awards. Capgemini was honored amongst the 
top Microsoft partners globally for demonstrating excellence 
in innovation and implementation of client solutions based on 
Microsoft technology. The Microsoft Partner of the Year Awards 
recognize Microsoft partners that have developed and delivered 
outstanding Microsoft -based applications, services and devices 
during the past year.
Find the press release here:
https://www.capgemini.com/news/press-releases/capgemini-wins-
six-2023-microsoft-partner-of-the-year-awards/
Winner of four Google Cloud Partner of the Year Awards
Capgemini won four 2023 Google Cloud Partner of the Year 
Awards, including the Global Google Cloud Industry Services 
Partner of the Year , demonstrating its commitment to leading with 
a customer -first vision and creating cutting -edge industry -solutions 
with Google Cloud. Capgemini was also named the Global Google 
Cloud Breakthrough Partner of the Year, recognizing the rapid 
growth of the partnership and its ability to turn Google Cloud’s 
innovations into enterprise -ready solutions. Its recent investment 
in spearheading the Generative AI movement with Google Cloud 
illustrates the ambition. Just two months since its creation, the 
first -of-its-kind Generative AI Google Cloud Center of Excellence 
(CoE) is assisting enterprises to successfully identify, deploy, and 
maximize generative AI capabilities to achieve their business 
transformation objectives.
Find the press release here:
https://www.capgemini.com/news/press-releases/capgemini-wins-
several-2023-google-cloud-partner-of-the-year-awards/
Winner of a record number of seven AW s Partner of 
the Year Awards
Capgemini won seven AWS Partner of the Year awards across a 
record number of global and local categories, including the coveted 
Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning (AI/ML) Global Partner of 
the Year award. The awards demonstrate Capgemini’s excellence in 
supporting joint clients to meet the demands of the dual transition 
to a digital and sustainable economy. AWS also named Capgemini 
its Global Innovation Partner  of the Year for delivering outstanding 
customer experience via an integrated lifecycle of services, and Global 
Industry Partner of the Year for Automotive due to Capgemini’s 
proven ability to accelerate transformation through purpose -built 
cloud capabilities and deep industry expertise. This year, AWS also 
named Capgemini its Global System Integration Partner of the Year 
for the EMEA region, recognizing Capgemini’s steadfast focus on 
delivering significant business impact.
Find the press release here:
https://www.capgemini.com/news/press-releases/capgemini-receives-
record-number-of-seven-aws-2023-partner-of-the-year-awards/Market Analyst Recognition
Capgemini a leader in the I dC Market scape: e uropean 
Professional s ervices for d ata d riven Government 
2022 v endor Assessment
Capgemini was positioned in the Leaders Category in the IDC 
MarketScape: European Professional Services for Data Driven 
Government 2022 Vendor Assessment. Capgemini was named a 
Leader among the 12 professional services firms, evaluated in this 
assessment, that help European governments become data -driven 
organizations. According to the report one of Capgemini’s strengths 
includes, “Capgemini’s expertise in the public sector domains 
and investments in thought leadership through innovation and 
competency centers that invest in strategic themes such as 
digital sovereignty and data spaces.” The report also noted, 
“Customers interviewed by IDC say Capgemini is willing to make 
extra investments and work hard to help customers realize the 
benefits of data -driven solutions.”
Find the press release here:
https://www.capgemini.com/news/press-releases/capgemini-
positioned-as-a-leader-in-the-idc-marketscape-european-professional-
services-for-data-driven-government-2022-vendor-assessment/
Capgemini recognized as a ‘Leader’ on worldwide ESG/
sustainability strategy Consulting Services
Capgemini was ranked a ‘Leader’ in the IDC MarketScape Worldwide 
ESG/Sustainability Strategy Consulting Services 2023 Vendor 
Assessment. Capgemini was recognized for its “strengths for 
customers that are looking to develop and implement a wide -sweeping 
sustainable business transformation. With capabilities across all 
functional groups of a business, Capgemini will be able to support 
clients looking for advisory, engineering, energy, data, and digital 
solutions for their sustainability journey.” – IDC
Find the report here:
https://www.idc.com/getdoc.jsp?containerId=US49044922
Capgemini recognized as a ‘Leader’ in IT Sustainability 
Service Providers
Capgemini was ranked a ‘Leader’ in The Forrester Wave™: IT 
Sustainability Service Providers, Q3  2023. Capgemini’s sustainable 
IT services were recognized for their ability to “encompass strategy 
and employee engagement, aiming to transform culture as well as 
drive sustainability. Capgemini stands out for its ability to design 
and engineer clean tech, securing patents and investing in research 
on sustainability topics to anticipate client needs.” – Forrester
Find the press release here:
https://www.capgemini.com/news/press-releases/capgemini-
recognized-as-a-leader-in-the-it-sustainability-services-providers-
evaluation-by-independent-research-firm/
Capgemini recognized as a ‘Leader’ on worldwide ESG 
Program Management Services
Capgemini was ranked a ‘Leader’ in the IDC MarketScape: Worldwide 
ESG Program Management Services 2023–2024 Vendor Assessment. 
Capgemini was recognized for “its strength in the breadth of its 
program management offerings. From simple carbon calculators 
and accounting services to deep AI-powered data management 
and analytics, Capgemini has a wide range of services built to 
meet clients where they are, regardless of maturity, industry, or 
materiality.” – IDC
Find the report here:
https://www.idc.com/getdoc.jsp?containerId=US50608423

PresenTATIon oF The GrouP And ITs ACTIvITIes
Capgemini group fundamental
11
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI1Capgemini recognized as a ‘leader’ in customer 
experience strategy
Capgemini was named a ‘Leader’ in The Forrester Wave™: 
IT s ustainability s ervice Providers, Q3  2023.  Capgemini was 
recognized for doubling down on its sustainability assets. Forrester 
called out Capgemini’s robust innovation ecosystem which enables 
collaboration with technology partners, startups, and academic 
institutions to drive tangible value and tackle sustainability 
challenges. Capgemini was also ranked a ‘Leader’ in The Forrester 
Wave™: Customer e xperience s trategy Consulting Practices, 
Q4 2022, ranking highest in the strategy category.  Capgemini 
was recognized for its ability to integrate creative strategy with 
the latest technologies such as Artificial Intelligence (AI) and the 
Internet of Things (IoT).
Find the press releases here:
https://www.capgemini.com/news/press-releases/capgemini-
recognized-as-a-leader-in-the-it-sustainability-services-providers-
evaluation-by-independent-research-firm/
https://www.capgemini.com/news/press-releases/capgemini-
recognized-as-a-leader-in-customer-experience-strategy-consulting-
practices-2022-report-by-independent-research-firm/
Capgemini is considered a leader in engineering 
according to Zinnov  
(source: Zinnov Zones for ER&D Services, Dec23)
Capgemini was positioned in the leadership zone for its overall 
ER&D Services as well as horizontal -specific capabilities, including 
Data & AI Engineering Services and Digital Engineering Services, 
along with its domain expertise across Aerospace, Automotive, 
Industrial, Enterprise and Consumer Software, Semiconductor, 
Telehealth, and Telecommunications.
Find the press release here:
https://www.capgemini.com/news/analyst-recognition/capgemini-
recognized-as-a-leader-in-2023-zinnov-zones-for-its-overall-
engineering-research-and-development-and-digital-engineering-
services-prowess-and-capabilities/
Capgemini is regarded a leader in GenAI according to h Fs 
(source: HFS Horizons: Generative Enterprise Services 2023, 
Oct23) 
Capgemini has been recognized for its key offerings in the gen 
AI space. It has garnered recognition for effectively translating 
its gen AI delivery experience into services spanning customer 
experience, strategy, software, and data privacy.
Find the press release here:
https://www.capgemini.com/news/analyst-recognition/capgemini-
recognized-as-a-horizon-3-market-leader-in-hfs-horizons-generative-
enterprise-services-2023/
Capgemini has been named a ‘Banking and Financial 
services Leader of the Year’ and an ‘Insurance IT 
services Leader of the Year’ by everest Group 
In the IT Service Provider of the Year – 2023 report (source: IT 
Service Provider of the Year) Capgemini has built a compelling value 
proposition that addresses key priorities of buyers in the open 
finance and risk and compliance domains. Strategic acquisitions, 
targeted investments in developing contextualized IP, and an 
expanded partner ecosystem including niche providers such as ESG specialists and RegTechs have enabled Capgemini to position itself 
as a future -ready IT services provider for BFS firms. Consistently 
strong recognition from clients regarding performance, quality, 
and value addition in engagements have been key factors for 
Capgemini’s Leader of the Year position in Banking and Financial 
Services in Everest Group’s IT Service Provider of the Year – 2023 
report.”
Find the press release here:
https://www.capgemini.com/news/analyst-recognition/capgemini-
named-a-leader-of-the-year-in-banking-and-financial-services-as-
well-as-in-insurance-in-everest-groups-it-service-provider-of-the-
year-2023-report/
Other Awards
one of the 2023 World’s Most e thical Companies ® for 
the 11th consecutive year
Capgemini was recognized by Ethisphere, a global leader in defining 
and advancing the standards of ethical business practices, as one 
of the 2023 World’s Most Ethical Companies. In 2023, 135 honorees 
were recognized spanning 19 countries and 46 industries. This is 
Capgemini’s 11th recognition in a row highlighting, once again, 
the Group’s strong ethical culture rooted in its core values and 
reflected in its Code of Business Ethics.
Find the press release here:
https://www.capgemini.com/news/press-releases/ethisphere-
names-capgemini-as-one-of-the-2023-worlds-most-ethical-
companies-for-the-11th-time/
Capgemini once again secured a position in the 
prestigious Bloomberg Gender- equality Index (G eI) for 
2023
Building on its inclusion in 2022, Capgemini aims to foster an 
inclusive work environment, striving for 30% women in executive 
leadership roles and 40% women within its teams by 2025. 
Remarkably, the Company has already increased these figures by 
4 percentage points in the past two years. Achieving an overall 
score above 80 points this year, nearly 10 points higher than the 
industry average, Capgemini earned a perfect score of 100% in 
two of the five dimensions: “Anti -sexual harassment policies” and 
“Pro women brands.” This accomplishment solidifies Capgemini’s 
position as a leader in championing gender equality within the 
corporate landscape.
Find the press releases here:
https://www.capgemini.com/gb-en/news/press-releases/capgemini-
recognised-once-again-in-the-bloomberg-gender-equality-index-
gei-2023-demonstrating-its-commitment-to-diversity-and-inclusion/
Capgemini maintained its position on the d ow Jones 
sustainability e urope Index
Capgemini is once again listed on the Dow Jones Sustainability 
Europe Index, which distinguishes 152 companies and recognizes 
their commitment to sustainable practices. The index evaluates 
companies based on a range of economic and environmental, 
social and governance (ESG) criteria. The ranking recognizes the 
relevance of Capgemini’s all -encompassing sustainability strategy 
that includes these key pillars. It also exemplifies the importance of 
transparency in reporting, being accountable for our ESG policy and 
non -financial reporting, and collaboration inside the Company itself.

PresenTATIon oF The GrouP And ITs ACTIvITIes
unique assets in a constantly changing market
12
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT112  Unique assets in a constantly changing market
121  A dynamic global services market
(1) Source: Estimates based on Gartner 4Q23: IT Services, Worldwide, (USD, Constant currency figures) and Zinnov 2024 Tech Services view.
(2) Source: Everest Group, Engineering Services – Top 50 Service Providers, 2023.Capgemini is active in the business and technology services 
market, as well as in the engineering, research & development 
(ER&D) services market. Together, those markets are estimated 
to be worth $1.7 trillion (1) and are both growing at strong single 
digit growth rates.Building on the momentum of a robust post -pandemic rebound in 
2021, the IT services market sustained its growth throughout 2022 
and 2023, fueled by accelerated digital transformation initiatives 
across diverse industries.
The below table approximates Capgemini’s addressable services market sizes:
Capgemini  
Marketnorth  
America Franceunited Kingdom  
& Ireland rest of e uropeAsia Pacific,  
Latin America, and 
rest of World
Size of overall 
addressable 
market> $720B > $60B > $110B > $260B > $480B
Sample Capgemini 
Competitors in 
Regional MarketsAccenture, 
Deloitte, Infosys, 
TCS, Wipro and 
CognizantAccenture, Atos, 
CGI, IBM, Sopra 
Steria and AltenAccenture, CGI, 
IBM, Infosys and 
TCSAccenture, 
Deloitte, IBM, 
Tieto, TCS and 
AltenAccenture, NTT 
Data, Cognizant, 
Deloitte, IBM and 
TCS
Within these markets:
 —  the worldwide consulting market is a cyclical market; 
Capgemini maintains strong market positions; 
 —  Capgemini is a market leader in the application, infrastructure 
& network implementation market with a particular focus on 
application implementation;  —  the system integration and outsourcing markets remain 
predictable, and activities are based on long term 
relationships with clients; 
 —  Business Process Outsourcing continues to grow and is 
increasingly driven by automation and artificial intelligence; 
 —  Capgemini is the market leader in the engineering, research 
& development (ER&D) services market (2).
122  Market trends
Capgemini sees a growing addressable market beyond the  
“traditional” Chief Information Officer (CIO) perimeter driven by 
the growth of digitalization across the enterprise, with cloud and  
artificial intelligence compelling companies to view their  
transformation holistically, involving the entire C-Suite in discussions.
 —  The Chief Information Officer (CIO) has become pivotal 
in steering digital transformation strategies across the 
organization’s IT infrastructure. The CIO ensures alignment 
of IT systems and resources with strategic goals, with a 
focus on innovative technologies for enhanced efficiency 
and improved data management. The role extends to 
collaborating with the C-suite to align technology strategy 
with business objectives, ensuring data security and 
compliance with evolving regulations. The CIO’s budget is 
not only focused on maintaining and upgrading traditional IT 
infrastructure but is increasingly directed towards innovative 
technologies that can enhance operational efficiency, 
improve data management, and provide strategic insights.
 —  The Chief Marketing Officer (CMO) whose spend on 
technology continues to increase notably due to the growth 
of digital marketing, which has become a key enabler for the 
CMO to deliver the “end -to-end customer experience” to 
their customers. The IT spend on digital marketing is largely 
incremental to the traditional IT budget. Technologies 
are increasingly important to the CMO in the customer experience (CX). CMOs are increasingly focusing their 
budget on technology and data to engage, capture and 
retain customers.
 —  The Chief Operating Officer (COO), product owners and/or 
Manufacturing Executives control significant spend across 
product development, operations, and process. There is a 
growing focus on enabling more intelligent delivery models, 
through increased efficiency, intelligent production, and 
ongoing product customization (to meet changing consumer 
demands). Here again the IT spend is largely incremental to 
the traditional IT budget.
 —  The Chief Sustainability Officer (CSO), whose role is expanding 
rapidly across the enterprise, is increasingly connected to 
business decisions. Strategy, finance, operations, human 
resources and technology facets need to be included in the 
discussions to ensure environmental, social and governance 
(ESG) performance in the long term. Specifically, the CSO 
starts spending on technology to track environmental 
impacts in an industrialized way, across the enterprise value 
chain, to understand their sources and rapidly take actions to 
reduce them.
 —  The Chief Digital Officer (CDO), whose role is infusing, 
orchestrating and realizing the true value of data across the 
organization, within the boundaries of regulatory and legal 
environments.

PresenTATIon oF The GrouP And ITs ACTIvITIes
unique assets in a constantly changing market
13
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI1As products and manufactures are connected and intelligent, 
enterprises must become real -time data -driven to design and 
develop intelligent supply chains that improve operational efficiency 
and customer experience.
Customer First
Customer First focuses on the relationships between our clients 
and their customers and how they can better meet consumer 
expectations in a continually evolving world.
What are enterprises looking for today?
 —  Providing compelling and rich customer experiences  – 
helping our clients engage and interact with their customers 
to increase revenue, customer satisfaction and loyalty.
 —  Continuous business re -invention  – businesses must 
continuously re -invent and adapt their value proposition to 
stay relevant on the market with new services, products, 
ecosystems, and business models to meet rapidly evolving 
customer expectations. New approaches enable customers 
to receive personalization and flexibility in their experience.
 —  Purpose and sustainability  – our clients and their customers 
demand greater responsibility in the development and 
delivery of sustainable products and services. We play a 
key role in delivering this ambition across the supply chain, 
especially by capitalizing on the capabilities of Intelligent 
Industry.
Within the end customer journey, data and artificial intelligence is 
increasingly important; data has intrinsic strategic value independent 
of the technology. Data is now ubiquitous – from consumers, devices, 
and environments. The data revolution began in marketing and 
continues with the delivery of connected experiences powered by 
data across channels, responding to customer signals in real -time 
with personalization at scale. For brands, success used to mean 
relying on data for interesting insights to justify decisions. Today, 
with Generative AI, representing tremendous opportunities for 
the production of hyper -personalized marketing content and 
interactions, re -thinking the way customers interact with the 
brand, the data -rich, dynamic technology landscape requires a 
different approach.
Success is now the instrumental value -driving activation of data. 
Data -native brands, born with a focus on the capture, mobilization, 
and activation of data, are out front. Our unique ability to navigate 
the technology landscape through proprietary partnerships and 
approaches to creating experiences empower traditional marketers 
to take the lead.
Intelligent Industry
Intelligent Industry goes beyond Industry 4.0, applying digital 
technologies to connect the entire end -to-end industrial value chain 
from design, research & development, and engineering, through 
to production, operations, supply chain and support – realizing 
the inherent value of real -time data within manufacturing and 
the wider industrial world.
What can be made now?
 —  Intelligent products and systems : with products and 
systems now being smart and connected, they can 
continuously be improved thanks to real -time data -driven 
feedback. This means greater uptime, reduced costs, and 
improved efficiency. —  Intelligent operations : traditional plants and industrial 
operations become smart with new digital technologies, 
which in turn changes the design of factories, systems, and 
their supply chains, how they operate, and how employees 
work within them.
 —  Intelligent support and services : with all products 
connected digitally, support and service departments will 
move from being cost centers to customer experience 
ambassadors and revenue generators, with data -driven 
services connected to the ongoing use of a product rather 
than longer ownership.
Manufacturing will move from being uni -directional (humans 
directing machines to produce goods, which are then sold to 
consumers) to being multi -directional, where consumers request 
goods straight from companies. Generative AI will play a significant 
role in this transformation, as it will be able to simulate multiple 
scenarios, optimize production plans, and even create new product 
designs based on consumer preferences. Manufacturing planning 
systems, powered by Generative AI, will direct production (thanks to 
automation and Industrial IoT) and organize raw materials (through 
digital supply chains) and relevant logistics ( via self -driving/robot 
warehousing) accordingly.
At the heart of this is the need for the enterprise to become data 
driven  in all that it does.
As a world leader in technology consulting, IT, engineering and 
R&D services, Capgemini is well positioned to work with clients 
across the whole end -to-end value chain of Intelligent Industry, 
from the business model, to products, operations, and services.
Across the market, there is an increase in new buying centers 
as digital transformation moves from the front -end customer 
experience to pervade wider enterprise operations. An indicator 
of this is the increased collegiality in buying behavior across 
the c -suite with the CIO operating in partnership with the CxO 
stakeholders. As the market continues to evolve and clients look 
to harness the benefits of new solutions with an emergence of 
new enterprise buyers, it is important to stay close to our clients’ 
decision -makers, which now include marketing and operational 
executives, to meet their new needs. This reflects a buoyant and 
natural market position for Capgemini.
This disruption is underpinned by:
 —  digital transformation is now inherent across the enterprise 
and considered the new normal, consistently driving a 
new digital landscape for the enterprise based on the key 
foundations of CORE IT; 
 —  the infusion of increasingly ubiquitous and transversal digital 
enablers (AI, deep learning, analytics, automation, DevOps, 
public, hybrid or sovereign cloud) while protecting from 
cyber -attacks; 
 —  the speed of adoption of new technologies is changing 
business behavior as the new products and services become 
a major driver for companies’ profitability, thus bringing 
CMO/CXOs to join the CIO (IT) in exploring and applying new 
technologies across the value chain. Therefore, CMO/CXOs 
have an increasing influence on technology spend.

PresenTATIon oF The GrouP And ITs ACTIvITIes
unique assets in a constantly changing market
14
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT1Sustainability
In front of the current environmental crisis, enterprises across 
the world face a major shift challenge, thus giving rise to a new 
and fast-growing sustainability services market. This market is 
leading to a massive acceleration in corporate transformation 
toward science-based environmental sustainability, driven by four 
underlying trends:
 —  Tightening regulations on climate and biodiversity : at 
least 10  countries are rolling out climate regulations for 
companies and investors, including UK, USA (upcoming SEC 
regulation on climate -related disclosures), and EU (“Fit for 
55” package, Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive, 
Carbon Border Adjustment Mechanism… ); 
 —  Increasing social expectations : ESG concerns are 
increasingly influencing consumer purchasing decisions and 
employee’s choices. For instance, 79% of consumers are 
declaring changing purchase preference based on the social 
or environmental impact of their purchases (1); 
 —  rising corporate awareness : according to the United 
Nations, over 1,200  companies have put in place science- 
based targets in line with net zero. Those goals, if fully met, 
would represent an annual investment of US$4  trillion by 
2030; 
 —  The need for new technologies and scaling -up of existing 
ones : as outlined by the Intergovernmental Panel on 
Climate Change, low -emissions technologies are available 
in all sectors. Some are mature and need to be scaled -up 
(renewable energies, EVs, heat pumps…  ). Others (carbon 
capture, hydrogen -based steel…  ) are still under development 
or in R&D and will require engineering expertise, ad hoc  
digital technologies, or market analyses.
(1) Capgemini report: How sustainability is fundamentally changing consumer preferences.
(2) IEA, Net Zero by 2050 – A roadmap for the global energy sector.
(3) Everest Group Net-Zero Consulting PEAK Matrix Assessment 2023.Overall, the cost to fully decarbonize our economies could reach 
$150 trillion within the next 30 years  (2). In this context, this would 
inevitably drive demand for sustainability services in three domains:
 —  digital & technology : this domain will contribute to 
decarbonization and reduction of climate and biodiversity 
impacts. Smart & digital solutions will support the scale 
up of new flexibility sources, energy efficiency, or cuts 
in energy consumption by redesigning the end -use in 
buildings, transport or industry. Artificial intelligence, 
including Generative AI, will help create more intelligent and 
sustainable supply chains ;
 —  Advisory & consulting : the market for sustainability 
consulting has begun to take shape as businesses struggle 
with setting decarbonization goals, measuring progress and 
delivering business transformation ;
 —  Products & operations services : sustainability is a 
cornerstone of today’s manufacturing operations, both as a 
way for organizations to fulfill their social and environmental 
contracts, and as a source of tangible benefits from increased 
sales to reduced costs. Sustaina bility is also paramount in the 
design of products and services and, for the coming years, in 
every industry.
As a world leader and a pioneer in the sustainability services (3), 
Capgemini is well positioned to work with its partners to develop 
new sustainability standards and solutions and help our clients 
on all the aspects of their sustainability challenges: from climate 
strategy and roadmap to sustainable product design and engineering, 
supply chains and operations decarbonization, up to carbon and 
biodiversity accounting challenges.
123  A demanding competitive environment
Our global marketplace continues to evolve, and we compete with 
a variety of organizations that offer services comparable to ours:
 —  technology players (e.g., Infosys, Wipro, Cognizant or TCS); 
 —  consulting and advisory players (e.g., Accenture, Deloitte, EY, 
PwC, McKinsey, BCG); 
 —  digital natives players (e.g., EPAM, Globant, or Thoughtworks); 
 —  Engineering Services players (e.g., Akka, Alten or Bertrandt); 
 —  infrastructure focused players (e.g., Atos, Kyndryl or NTT 
Data ); 
 —  regional players (Reply, Sopra Steria, Indra, Tieto).
Moreover, we see the continued growth of Engineering Research 
& Development spend within clients with the emergence of an 
addressable Digital Engineering market that increasingly looks to 
consume, integrate, deploy, and secure new technologies across 
artificial intelligence, cloud, Internet of Things, cybersecurity, etc.The main competitive factors that we believe exist in the 
marketplace are:
 —  ability to deliver – in both individuals and products; 
 —  expertise – in business, technology as well as industry 
knowledge; 
 —  innovation – through partner ecosystems, services and 
portfolio offers; 
 —  reputation and integrity – in both testimonials and client 
references; 
 —  value – in adding and improving business performance; 
 —  time -to-value – in executing value -added projects at pace; 
 —  pricing – in contractual terms and pricing; 
 —  service and  scope – in bringing the right people and products 
to clients; 
 —  delivery – quality results on a timely basis; 
 —  global reach and scale – in providing the right level of 
presence in key markets.

PresenTATIon oF The GrouP And ITs ACTIvITIes
unique assets in a constantly changing market
15
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI1124  Partners and ecosystem of partners
Capgemini has always forged strategic partnerships with high 
profile technology companies and with startups with specialist 
skills. The Group has always maintained an independent posture 
with partners so that we are free to select those that offer the 
best response to the expectations and challenges of Capgemini’s 
clients on a case -by-case basis. The majority of our client revenue 
is delivered with one or multiple partners; we select and monitor 
our partners on a continuous basis to ensure they provide the 
enterprise grade capability and stability that our clients require. 
We also understand the need to drive with an opinion and select 
the technology that are relevant for the needs of our customers 
and help them accelerate their transformation. We believe that the 
new ecosystem of partners will increasingly combine: Hyperscalers, 
Independent Software Vendors, and industry flavored partners to 
help our clients realize promptly their ROI.
We have continued to accelerate joint initiatives with selected 
partners, to help clients manage and accelerate their digital 
transformation journey while delivering business outcomes:
 —  Cloud with Amazon Web s ervices (AW s): we developed a 
range of market solutions that focus on a cloud -first strategy 
that enables growth, innovation, cost -efficiency and business 
model disruption. We continued to expand our strategic 
initiative to further meet the needs of clients by focusing 
on mass application migrations, cloud native development, 
cloud application modernization, artificial intelligence (AI), 
machine learning (ML), managed vertical solutions and 
managed services; 
 —  Google Cloud:  with Google Cloud, we develop vertical, 
cutting -edge solutions with a particular focus on addressing 
clients’ challenges in Financial Services, Retail and 
Automotive. We leverage Google Cloud’s leading products in 
AI/ML, data, security and multi -cloud strategies to propose 
industry -specific, scalable solutions and help clients realize 
the full potential of their cloud investments; 
 —  enterprise Portfolio Modernization with Microsoft Azure : 
this Enterprise Portfolio Modernization (EPM) initiative 
includes several solutions to support Capgemini’s Cloud 
and Application Development and Maintenance (ADMnext) 
portfolio of assets and services. EPM optimizes enterprise 
applications and enterprise ERPs (enterprise resource 
planning) and reaps the benefits of cloud economics to 
achieve new business speed and agility. This new initiative 
focuses on four key solutions based on Azure: Modernize and 
Migrate Legacy Applications, Data Centre Transformation, 
Develop Cloud-Native Applications including low code no 
code and Migrate SAP applications to Azure; 
 —  Factory of the Future (FoF) with Microsoft : this new 
initiative can accelerate the effectiveness of customers’ 
Digital Manufacturing operations at scale. FoF starts with 
Intelligent Operations Platform (IOP), which integrates 
with the existing technology stack and can be implemented 
quickly with a set of reference architectures. We add a set 
of packaged Business Services including Digital Twins, 
Immersive Remote Assistance, adaptable general computer 
vision, predictive maintenance, and real time KPIs for 
plant optimization. Capgemini is also a member of Open 
Manufacturing Platform to help manufacturers design the 
new reference models in Manufacturing;  —  data d riven d igital Marketing with Adobe : customer -first 
strategy starts with data at its core and curation of data 
for real -time insights towards delivering value across the 
customer journey. We focus on delivering insights -driven 
end -customer experience for the brands we serve jointly 
with Adobe. Our signature offer, Connected Marketing, 
focuses on excelling in Customer and Data activation, while 
leveraging the whole new set of Generative AI offerings 
from Adobe. Our industry -focused approach with strong 
differentiated assets in selected sectors drives uniqueness 
and differentiation for our clients. Data driven customer 
experience offer makes this real -time for the client’s business 
outcomes desired; 
 —  Intelligent Industry with d assault s ystèmes : together 
with Dassault, we’re helping clients to design more 
sophisticated and innovative products, produced with new 
levels of efficiency, and delivered to the market faster than 
previously possible. Five joint solutions apply model -based 
and data -driven digital tools to the domains of engineering, 
manufacturing, and supply chain – with the resulting 
capabilities helping clients to maintain a competitive 
advantage in the market; 
 —  energy Command Center with s chneider e lectric: Making a 
more sustainable world,  we have launched a unique Energy 
Command Center (ECC) built on IoT based architecture for 
intuitive resource management. It harnesses a data -driven 
approach and digitalization to monitor and manage 
performance of energy assets and further aids in our clients’ 
client sustainability initiatives;
 —  Accelerating the battery manufacturing/Gigafactory 
Industry with s iemens: we have partnered with Siemens 
to accelerate the time to market, reduce the scrap rate, 
support traceability of the full battery value chain by taking 
a simulation first approach to the Gigafactory development 
and making it data driven;
 —  Delivering Experience Excellence through unified Digital 
Landscapes with servicen ow: we bring together people, 
process, technology, data and service to deliver exceptional 
experiences and sustainable business outcomes with 
ServiceNow. By helping our clients create and optimize 
cross -functional workflows through connecting disparate 
enterprise systems into integrated seamless experiences, 
Capgemini and ServiceNow offer clients both process 
innovation and life extension of existing investments, while 
delivering greater efficiency and productivity; 
 —  Cloud native transformation with both IBM red hat 
and v Mware : we help our clients accelerate their digital 
transformation (including mainframe modernization) by 
rapidly and efficiently creating, transforming and managing 
applications with cloud native delivery; 
 —  Field Service Lightning Accelerator  with s alesforce : 
enhances and extends Field Service Lightning to address 
complex capital assets that require onsite corrective repair. 
With Salesforce, we have also launched the GenAI for CX 
foundry to h elp our clients using Salesforce Einstein boost 
their generative AI investments and explore CX use bases 
customized for industries.

PresenTATIon oF The GrouP And ITs ACTIvITIes
unique assets in a constantly changing market
16
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT1 —  Transforming Industries with s AP: addressing the most 
challenging business problem in industries like Automotive 
and Retail Grocery/Mass Merchandise, Capgemini and SAP 
have expanded their collaboration with Cloud as a critical 
enabler for agility and transformation. SAP and Capgemini 
are collaborating to help automotive suppliers meet all these 
requirements, leveraging the benefits of cloud technology. 
Accelerators such as systems preconfigured for automotive 
suppliers enable you to get up and running in just a few 
months, while Software -as-a-Service (SaaS) delivery greatly 
reduces the ongoing IT burden with no sacrifice of the rich 
functionality of SAP S/4HANA®. For Retailers, the pandemic 
forced a steep learning curve on many shoppers who are 
here to stay, but this came with margin pressure to a sector 
already undergoing challenges. To get back to profitable 
growth, Retailers need to realize digital transformation’s 
full potential. Together with SAP, we have launched new 
programs to help address these challenges. For the leading 
automotive suppliers, our Automotive offerings leveraging 
SAP S/4HANA Cloud and SAP Cloud Platform will enable 
them to become “renewable enterprises”: organizations 
that can constantly grow and adapt to new and changing 
business environments by unleashing the power of new 
digital technologies;
 —  Leveraging the business value of immersive and metaverse 
experiences with u nity and n vidia:  shaping industry -specific 
Digital Twin strategies, developing disruptive actionable 
solutions and technology expertise to roll out and scale the 
future metaverse/decentralized Web3; 
 —  Transforming the Telco Industry leveraging 5G and e dge  by 
combining technology (Microsoft, AWS, Verizon, Qualcomm), 
systems integration and engineering expertise across IT, 
operational technology (OT) and networks;
 —  harnessing the power of Generative AI , we are working 
with our largest partners like SAP, Microsoft, Google, 
Amazon, Salesforce, Nvidia but also with newcomers like 
MistralAI, Aleph Alpha, Cohere,  Anthropic, Liquid AI to help 
our clients leverage those new technologies to generate 
business outcomes faster, or enhance their current teams.
Capgemini has a global sales and delivery partner network with 
companies whose solutions are complementary to our own. Our 
unique expertise, in collaboration with our alliance partners’ 
products and services, allows us to build new and valuable business 
solutions for our clients in less time and with a degree of accuracy 
not possible without this approach.Our ecosystem of partners provides critical synergy and is crucial 
to our efforts to solve the toughest business challenges for our 
clients, be it in new business model creation, new technology 
solution implementation, or progression into new global markets.
As of today, Capgemini’s global ecosystem includes the following 
sample of partners:
 —  Adobe
 —  A W S
 —  Aveva
 —  Dassault 
Systèmes
 —  DELL
 —  Duck Creek
 —  Google
 —  Guidewire
 —   I B M / R e dhat
 — Intel —  Majesco
 —  Microsoft
 —  Mistral AI
 —  N v i d i a
 —  O p e n T e x t
 —  Oracle
 —  Pega
 —  P T C
 —  Q u a l c o m m
 —  Salesforce
 —  S A P —  Schneider 
Electric
 —  Siemens
 —  ServiceNow
 —  Tenemos
 —  UiPath
 —  Unity
 —  V e r i z o n
 —  V M w a r e
Innovation cannot happen in a vacuum. It needs energy and 
momentum. It needs a thriving ecosystem that provides partnerships 
and investment initiatives for both large organizations and the 
brightest startups.
Capgemini continued to build its innovation -centric emerging 
partner ecosystem program. With several hundred participants 
covering AI, Data, Advanced Analytics, IoT, 5G, Intelligent Automation, 
Edge Computing, AR/ VR, cybersecurity and FinTech technologies, 
Capgemini continues to maintain a flexible and forward -looking 
pattern of partnership evolution. Over 200+ clients have collaborated 
with the emerging partner ecosystem by embracing innovations 
that will put their businesses ahead and allow adoption of new 
business models ecosystem to create innovative solutions and 
new business value.
Through our global network of Applied Innovation Exchanges, our 
ecosystem of technology partners constantly works with clients to 
turn innovation into valuable, business -focused solutions at pace.
Further, Capgemini Ventures aims at co -creating and delivering 
value with startups, clients, and tech partners. By building a 
joint go- to-market with startups and partner ecosystems and in 
some cases, making minority investments, we are able to provide 
greater value for our clients. We have launched startup Catalyst, 
an end -to-end framework for startup ecosystem management that 
is designed to enable collaboration in a structured way between 
Capgemini and startups to provide value to our clients.

PresenTATIon oF The GrouP And ITs ACTIvITIes
A strategy to support long-term growth
17
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI113  A strategy to support long‑term growth
131  Value creation drivers
Capgemini is ideally positioned to capitalize on the growth 
opportunities of the worldwide Consulting, IT Professional 
Services and Digital Engineering markets with the expertise to 
help our clients transform at scale. We are in an industry which is 
at the forefront of change; digital remains on every CxO agenda. 
Technology is driving transformation in all industries; Cloud, Data 
and AI are everywhere.
A technology and innovation strategy at the core
Our focus is on strategic value generation to address the needs of 
our clients within focused industries as they seek to drive one of the 
most significant waves of digitalization ever seen. We are proud of 
our expertise in new technologies: we understand their potential 
and the impact they will have on our clients’ business activities. 
This outstanding expertise is essential in gaining our clients’ trust 
and becoming their chosen strategic transformation partner.
We assess technology trends with our best global experts in 
domains including Artificial Intelligence, blockchain, cloud, edge 
computing, connectivity, cybersecurity, data, IoT, 5G, digital twins, 
Metaverse and quantum.
We help enterprises navigate the compelling opportunities for 
business with TechnoVision, our annual technological guide to 
implement enterprise -ready technology in the complex systems 
of our clients.
Similarly, our Applied Innovation Exchange (AIE), a global network 
composed of 22 innovation labs, provides a controlled environment 
for organizations to immerse themselves in the understanding, 
experimentation, and application of emerging technologies. We 
are fueled by the intense transformation needs of our clients.
Our ecosystem of partners, both business and technological, 
represents a strategic asset for Capgemini and our clients. By 
collaborating closely with our partners and through our deep 
understanding of our clients’ business environments, we can create 
a competitive advantage and new business capabilities.
Therefore, we tirelessly invest in content, industry knowledge 
and offerings.Our people as our best asset
Capgemini’s spirit of conquest and passion for entrepreneurship 
on behalf of our clients have always been key for our employees. 
The people of Capgemini are proven experts in their fields and 
are our greatest strength. They are at the frontline of business 
transformation, driving our high -performance culture and providing 
our clients with cutting -edge services. Thanks to them, we are able 
to ensure high -quality deliverables and reach the most ambitious 
objectives.
In 2023, we continued to invest in our people, including emerging 
talent pools, to attract, retain and train the best in the industry. 
We also offered leadership opportunities to our diverse and 
emerging talents, recognizing the importance of cultivating new 
perspectives and skills. By investing in our people and fostering a 
culture of inclusivity, we are able to drive innovation and remain 
competitive in a rapidly changing market.
We work hand -in-hand with our clients to help them attain their 
objectives in terms of innovation, business development, and 
effectiveness and we are passionate about our clients’ challenges. 
Our conviction is that the purpose of a transformation program 
should not be digital for digital’s sake. It should be driven by specific 
business needs and designed with the optimal architecture to best 
capture the value from innovation.
We partner with clients to drive end -to-end transformation enabled 
by our capabilities, which range from innovation, consulting, and 
systems integration to managed service operations.
Moreover, as a global strategic partner, we believe that in -depth 
industry knowledge is critical. We align our skills and expertise in 
seven sectors to transform our clients’ businesses.

PresenTATIon oF The GrouP And ITs ACTIvITIes
A strategy to support long-term growth
18
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT1A GLOBAL ECOSYSTEM OF RESEARCH AND INNOVATION   
Our research and innovation ecosystem leverage:
• in-house resources (labs, centers of excellence and creative studios),
• our Applied Innovation Exchange centers (AIE) to co-innovate with our clients,
• and a network of start-ups or joint ventures with industry and industry leaders.
Capgemini Ventures, part of our open innovation strategy, also aims at co-creating 
and delivering value with startups, clients, and tech partners.
SAFE AND SUSTAINABLE BY DESIGN   
CYBERSECURITY & DATA PROTECTION 
Cybersecurity provides the Group and its clients a complete portfolio of specialized services 
in governance, protection, detection, and response to cyberattacks, with the aim of 
safeguarding on premise as well as cloud computing, connected objects, and industrial 
systems. Personal data entrusted by its clients, employees and other stakeholders are 
protected by Capgemini by design, and in accordance with applicable regulations.
A COMMITTED CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY 
ESG is embedded in our corporate strategy with a focus on eight priorities that have 
signiﬁ  cant positive impacts on our business, for our stakeholders, and society at large. 
Sustainable development, and in particular the reduction of carbon footprint and 
biodiversity loss, is part of our commitments for a sustainable and inclusive future.HUMAN
•  340,000 talented employees
in more than 50 countries
 •  An average age of 33.9 
within the Group
 •  A broad diversity of proﬁ  les
and expertise
INDUSTRIAL
 •  Recognized industrial 
and technology know-how
•   Management of complex projects
 • 15 security operations centers
•  73 delivery centers
INTELLECTUAL
•  Continuous investment in R&D
•  The multi-award-winning 
Capgemini Research Institute
 •  Technovision, a report to help 
decode and deploy relevant 
technology evolutions
•  Strategic partnerships with 
technology and business leaders
•  Alliances with universities, 
schools, research centers, 
startups and recognized experts
•  Capgemini, an internationally 
recognized brand
FINANCIAL
 •  A strong balance sheet, 
with a total equity of €10.5 bn
 •  €1,963m organic free cash 
ﬂ  ow generation
•  Credit rating attributed by the 
rating agency Standard & Poor’s: 
“BBB+ with stable outlook”
The Group has developed 
speciﬁ  c policies to access 
and leverage these resources 
and these are fully embedded 
in our internal controls and risk 
management systems. PEOPLE & ORGANIZATION   
PASSIONATE, COMMITTED 
& SKILLED TALENTS
 • Seven core values
 • A bold entrepreneurial spirit
• Ethical culture as a guide
•  A dynamic evolving skills pipeline, 
ﬁ  lled internally and externally 
by an agile talent marketplace 
and expanded talent pools
•  Tailored world-class learnings and 
customized employee experiences 
to continuously develop tomorrow’s skills
•  Speciﬁ  c programs to build holistic 
leadership capabilities
•  An inclusive and ﬂ  exible work 
environmentAN AGILE ORGANIZATION
•  Global delivery model supported by 
multiple hubs, the largest one being in India
•  Proven expertise in the allocation 
of talents and skillsets
•  Global Quality Management System
•  99% of Capgemini employees have access 
to our Flexible Work policy
•  Global Cybersecurity Governance 
and Management System
ENHANCED CAPABILITIES
We help clients by applying capabilities in:
•  Strategy & Transformation
•  Applications & Technology
•  Engineering
•  OperationsOUR B USINESS 
MODEL
CLIENT BUSINESS NEEDS   
We are a responsible business and technology transformation 
partner delivering business value to our clients and society at large, 
by leveraging useful, accessible and sustainable technology.
We help our clients transform at scale, as they transition 
to a digital and sustainable economy.
CUSTOMER FIRST 
Transforming the experience that our clients deliver 
to their customers, including the value of their products 
and services and the quality of each customer interaction.CLIENTS
 •  4.2/5: client satisfaction 
level on engagements
  •  A target of 10 million tons 
of CO2 saved by 2030 by our 
clients thanks to our solutions
TALENTS
  •  €15,341m paid in gross 
wages and salaries, 
payroll taxes and beneﬁ  t
  •  38.8% of women 
in the workforce
  •  26.2% of women in Executive 
leadership positions
  •  17.8 million hours of training 
 •   7.9/10: employee engagement 
score, as measured in monthly 
internal surveys
 •   8.9% employee share 
ownership
BUSINESS AND 
TECHNOLOGY PARTNERS
  •  €3,508m in purchase of goods 
and services with our suppliers
 •  The majority of our sales are 
made alongside our partners
SOCIETY AND 
PUBLIC AUTHORITIES
  •  €626m income tax expense
 •   1,152 social impact projects
  •  Net zero business by 2040
 •   Contribution to 11 out of 
17 Sustainable Development 
Goals adopted by the 
United Nations
•   4.4 million citizens beneﬁ  ted 
from our digital inclusion 
initiatives since 2018
SHAREHOLDERS 
AND INVESTORS
 •   Earnings per share of €9.7 
(up 7% on 2022)
  •  €1,442m returned to 
shareholders (€559m dividend, 
€883m share buyback)
  •  13.3% operating marginOUR PURPOSE  “UNLEASHING HUMAN ENERGY THROUGH TECHNOLOGY FOR AN INCLUSIVE AND SUSTAINABLE FUTURE”    
OUR VALUE PROPOSITION OUR CLIENT-ORIENTED STRENGTHS OUR RESOURCES FOR SHARED OUTCOMES
INTELLIGENT INDUSTRY 
Transforming digitally our client value chain, 
from the design and development of 
sustainable, intelligent products and services 
to intelligent supply chain, extending 
to the smart manufacturing of products 
and intelligent service operations.ENTERPRISE MANAGEMENT  
Transforming the processes, teams, 
solutions and operations to run enterprises 
with a greater agility and operational 
eﬃ   ciency, in a sustainable manner and 
for a personalized employee experience.
CORE EXPERTISES   
INDUSTRY EXPERTISE
Knowing the unique challenges that each 
industry faces is critical to business success. 
We have developed deep industry 
knowledge in:
•  Consumer Goods & Retail
•  Energy & Utilities
•  Financial Services
•  Manufacturing
•  Public Sector
•  Services
•  Telecommunications, 
Media & Technology
CLOUD
While our clients move away from physical 
data centers, we are operationalizing their 
move to cloud by leveraging the latest cloud 
services and streamlining business operations. 
As a strategic lever of transformation, 
the cloud enables them to innovate, launch 
intelligent products and services to create 
new revenue streams.DATA & ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE (AI)
We help our clients draw signiﬁ  cant business 
and operational beneﬁ  ts in an ethical fashion, 
by developing and implementing use cases 
with Analytics and AI services, and by 
designing, building and running data and 
AI solutions at scale.
SUSTAINABILITY
A comprehensive portfolio of services 
and solutions to leverage climate technologies, 
transform business models, develop products, 
and optimize operations and value chains 
towards a sustainable future.
ENGINEERING
We unleash the potential of R&D and 
innovation to develop the products 
and services of tomorrow and transform 
industrial operations, by leveraging digital 
and software advanced technologies, 
agile  engineering platforms and an 
industrialized delivery model.

PresenTATIon oF The GrouP And ITs ACTIvITIes
A strategy to support long-term growth
19
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI1A GLOBAL ECOSYSTEM OF RESEARCH AND INNOVATION   
Our research and innovation ecosystem leverage:
• in-house resources (labs, centers of excellence and creative studios),
• our Applied Innovation Exchange centers (AIE) to co-innovate with our clients,
• and a network of start-ups or joint ventures with industry and industry leaders.
Capgemini Ventures, part of our open innovation strategy, also aims at co-creating 
and delivering value with startups, clients, and tech partners.
SAFE AND SUSTAINABLE BY DESIGN   
CYBERSECURITY & DATA PROTECTION 
Cybersecurity provides the Group and its clients a complete portfolio of specialized services 
in governance, protection, detection, and response to cyberattacks, with the aim of 
safeguarding on premise as well as cloud computing, connected objects, and industrial 
systems. Personal data entrusted by its clients, employees and other stakeholders are 
protected by Capgemini by design, and in accordance with applicable regulations.
A COMMITTED CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY 
ESG is embedded in our corporate strategy with a focus on eight priorities that have 
signiﬁ  cant positive impacts on our business, for our stakeholders, and society at large. 
Sustainable development, and in particular the reduction of carbon footprint and 
biodiversity loss, is part of our commitments for a sustainable and inclusive future.HUMAN
•  340,000 talented employees
in more than 50 countries
 •  An average age of 33.9 
within the Group
 •  A broad diversity of proﬁ  les
and expertise
INDUSTRIAL
 •  Recognized industrial 
and technology know-how
•   Management of complex projects
 • 15 security operations centers
•  73 delivery centers
INTELLECTUAL
•  Continuous investment in R&D
•  The multi-award-winning 
Capgemini Research Institute
 •  Technovision, a report to help 
decode and deploy relevant 
technology evolutions
•  Strategic partnerships with 
technology and business leaders
•  Alliances with universities, 
schools, research centers, 
startups and recognized experts
•  Capgemini, an internationally 
recognized brand
FINANCIAL
 •  A strong balance sheet, 
with a total equity of €10.5 bn
 •  €1,963m organic free cash 
ﬂ  ow generation
•  Credit rating attributed by the 
rating agency Standard & Poor’s: 
“BBB+ with stable outlook”
The Group has developed 
speciﬁ  c policies to access 
and leverage these resources 
and these are fully embedded 
in our internal controls and risk 
management systems. PEOPLE & ORGANIZATION   
PASSIONATE, COMMITTED 
& SKILLED TALENTS
 • Seven core values
 • A bold entrepreneurial spirit
• Ethical culture as a guide
•  A dynamic evolving skills pipeline, 
ﬁ  lled internally and externally 
by an agile talent marketplace 
and expanded talent pools
•  Tailored world-class learnings and 
customized employee experiences 
to continuously develop tomorrow’s skills
•  Speciﬁ  c programs to build holistic 
leadership capabilities
•  An inclusive and ﬂ  exible work 
environmentAN AGILE ORGANIZATION
•  Global delivery model supported by 
multiple hubs, the largest one being in India
•  Proven expertise in the allocation 
of talents and skillsets
•  Global Quality Management System
•  99% of Capgemini employees have access 
to our Flexible Work policy
•  Global Cybersecurity Governance 
and Management System
ENHANCED CAPABILITIES
We help clients by applying capabilities in:
•  Strategy & Transformation
•  Applications & Technology
•  Engineering
•  OperationsOUR B USINESS 
MODEL
CLIENT BUSINESS NEEDS   
We are a responsible business and technology transformation 
partner delivering business value to our clients and society at large, 
by leveraging useful, accessible and sustainable technology.
We help our clients transform at scale, as they transition 
to a digital and sustainable economy.
CUSTOMER FIRST 
Transforming the experience that our clients deliver 
to their customers, including the value of their products 
and services and the quality of each customer interaction.CLIENTS
 •  4.2/5: client satisfaction 
level on engagements
  •  A target of 10 million tons 
of CO2 saved by 2030 by our 
clients thanks to our solutions
TALENTS
  •  €15,341m paid in gross 
wages and salaries, 
payroll taxes and beneﬁ  t
  •  38.8% of women 
in the workforce
  •  26.2% of women in Executive 
leadership positions
  •  17.8 million hours of training 
 •   7.9/10: employee engagement 
score, as measured in monthly 
internal surveys
 •   8.9% employee share 
ownership
BUSINESS AND 
TECHNOLOGY PARTNERS
  •  €3,508m in purchase of goods 
and services with our suppliers
 •  The majority of our sales are 
made alongside our partners
SOCIETY AND 
PUBLIC AUTHORITIES
  •  €626m income tax expense
 •   1,152 social impact projects
  •  Net zero business by 2040
 •   Contribution to 11 out of 
17 Sustainable Development 
Goals adopted by the 
United Nations
•   4.4 million citizens beneﬁ  ted 
from our digital inclusion 
initiatives since 2018
SHAREHOLDERS 
AND INVESTORS
 •   Earnings per share of €9.7 
(up 7% on 2022)
  •  €1,442m returned to 
shareholders (€559m dividend, 
€883m share buyback)
  •  13.3% operating marginOUR PURPOSE  “UNLEASHING HUMAN ENERGY THROUGH TECHNOLOGY FOR AN INCLUSIVE AND SUSTAINABLE FUTURE”    
OUR VALUE PROPOSITION OUR CLIENT-ORIENTED STRENGTHS OUR RESOURCES FOR SHARED OUTCOMES
INTELLIGENT INDUSTRY 
Transforming digitally our client value chain, 
from the design and development of 
sustainable, intelligent products and services 
to intelligent supply chain, extending 
to the smart manufacturing of products 
and intelligent service operations.ENTERPRISE MANAGEMENT  
Transforming the processes, teams, 
solutions and operations to run enterprises 
with a greater agility and operational 
eﬃ   ciency, in a sustainable manner and 
for a personalized employee experience.
CORE EXPERTISES   
INDUSTRY EXPERTISE
Knowing the unique challenges that each 
industry faces is critical to business success. 
We have developed deep industry 
knowledge in:
•  Consumer Goods & Retail
•  Energy & Utilities
•  Financial Services
•  Manufacturing
•  Public Sector
•  Services
•  Telecommunications, 
Media & Technology
CLOUD
While our clients move away from physical 
data centers, we are operationalizing their 
move to cloud by leveraging the latest cloud 
services and streamlining business operations. 
As a strategic lever of transformation, 
the cloud enables them to innovate, launch 
intelligent products and services to create 
new revenue streams.DATA & ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE (AI)
We help our clients draw signiﬁ  cant business 
and operational beneﬁ  ts in an ethical fashion, 
by developing and implementing use cases 
with Analytics and AI services, and by 
designing, building and running data and 
AI solutions at scale.
SUSTAINABILITY
A comprehensive portfolio of services 
and solutions to leverage climate technologies, 
transform business models, develop products, 
and optimize operations and value chains 
towards a sustainable future.
ENGINEERING
We unleash the potential of R&D and 
innovation to develop the products 
and services of tomorrow and transform 
industrial operations, by leveraging digital 
and software advanced technologies, 
agile  engineering platforms and an 
industrialized delivery model.

PresenTATIon oF The GrouP And ITs ACTIvITIes
A strategy to support long-term growth
20
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT1Our ESG strategy
Capgemini is determined to have a positive impact on value creation 
and employment for all stakeholders within its ecosystem. We – 
in business – must leverage our leadership and our operations to 
speed up a bold transition to sustainable and inclusive growth.
Our ESG Policy is the guide for an effective integration of our 
priorities into the Group’s strategy, decision -making process, development of solutions and services, and in our relationship with 
our main stakeholders. It aims not only to comply with applicable 
regulations, but also to incorporate national and international ESG 
best practices and recommendations in our operations.
ESG is embedded in our corporate strategy focusing on eight ESG 
priorities material for shared success. To this end, the policy frames 
11 objectives that will ensure that we deliver on our priorities.
ENVIRONMENT
Accelerating the 
transition to  
net zero  A  Act on climate change by being carbon neutral 
by 2025, and becoming a net zero business1 Be carbon neutral for our own operations no later 
than 2025 and across our supply chain by 2030, 
and committed to becoming a net zero business 
by 2040 (1)
2 Transition to 100% renewable electricity by 2025, 
and electric vehicles by 2030
B  Lead to low -carbon economic transition 
by helping our clients achieve their 
environmental commitments3 Help our clients to save 10m tons of CO2e by 2030
SOCIAL
Aligned 
entrepreneurs, 
with protection  
& respect for all  C  Relentlessly invest in our talent through a 
unique experience, developing tomorrow’s 
skills4 Increase average learning hours per employee by 
5% every year to ensure regular lifelong learning
D  Enhance a diverse, inclusive and hybrid work 
environment5 40% of women in our teams by 2025
E  Support digital inclusion in our communities 6 5M beneficiaries supported by our digital inclusion 
programs by 2030
GOVERNANCE
Leading 
with trust & 
transparency  F  Foster a diverse and accountable governance 7 30% of women in executive leadership positions 
in 2025
8 Maintain best -in-class Corporate Governance
G  Maintain high ethical standards at all times for 
mutual growth9 Maintain over 80% of the workforce with Ethics 
Score between 7 -10
10 By 2030, suppliers covering 80% of the purchase 
amount of the previous year, will have committed 
to our ESG standards
H  Protect and secure data, infrastructure and 
identity11 Be recognized as a front leader on data protection
(1) Our initial objective, as published in our ESG Policy in 2021, was to become net zero well ahead of 2050. Since then, we have refined our net zero targets in line with the 
Science Based Target initiative’s (SBTi) new Corporate Net-Zero Standard. Capgemini’s refined net zero targets have been assessed by the SBTi and were approved in 
July 2022. Our new net zero headline target is to achieve a 90% reduction in carbon emissions across Scopes 1, 2 and 3 by 2040, compared to a baseline of 2019. For more 
information, please refer to Capgemini Environmental Sustainability Report 2021 -2022.
We are convinced that to succeed, our policies must be based on 
a more integrated approach combining economic growth, climate 
change mitigation and adaptation, and our biodiversity footprint.
Therefore, in 2023, the Group launched its first large -scale 
impact study drawing on reliable and internationally recognized 
methodologies. The learning from this study will help shape the 
Group’s ESG policy which will be updated in 2025. This evaluation 
– covering 99% of our activities – highlights our determination to implement an increasingly stringent continuous improvement 
process. Using this study, we can gauge and understand all the 
direct, indirect, and induced impacts of our activity. We identified 
and measured the economic flows of all our business lines in terms 
of purchases, wages, and taxes, and quantified the wealth produced 
and distributed by the Group across the world. Using the same 
inputs, we also analysed our impact on climate and biodiversity.

PresenTATIon oF The GrouP And ITs ACTIvITIes
An agile business
21
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI1132  An adapted investment policy
The Group continued a digital -centric strategy with targeted 
acquisitions aimed at reinforcing Capgemini’s leadership across 
its portfolio.
In July, the Group completed the acquisition of BTC, a leading 
cloud and Digital services provider in Japan, to enable Capgemini 
to further build its cloud and digital capabilities in the country and 
meet strong demand for its end -to-end services.
In addition, the Group extended its global silicon engineering 
capabilities with the acquisition of HDL Design House, a leading 
independent provider of silicon design and verification services in Europe. This reinforced silicon services as a key enabler of the 
intelligent industry revolution, where Capgemini is a leader.
In September, the Group also announced the acquisition of the 
Financial Crime Compliance (FCC) division of Exiger, a global market 
leading financial crime practice. The acquisition strengthened the 
Group’s offerings in financial crime, risk management and regulatory 
compliance services.
Through 2024, the Group will continue to evaluate the market 
for opportunities to strengthen its positions across high -growth 
domains. These acquisitions will be possible thanks to the Group’s 
solid financial position and leading market positions.
133  Financing policy and financial rating
The Capgemini financing policy is intended to provide the Group 
with adequate financial flexibility and is based on the following 
main criteria:
 —  a moderate use of debt leverage: over the past ten years 
Capgemini has striven to maintain at all times a limited level 
of net debt, including in the manner in which it finances its 
external growth; 
 —  diversified financing sources adapted to the Group’s financial 
profile: Capgemini bases its financing around “bank” 
sources (mainly a €1,000  million multi -currency syndicated 
credit facility undrawn at December 31, 2023) and “market” 
sources: bond issues totaling €5,700  million in principal 
at December  31, 2023 and a €1,250  million short -term 
negotiable debt securities program, unused at December 31, 
2023;  —  a good level of liquidity and sustainable financial resources, 
which means:
 –  maintaining an adequate level of liquidity on the 
balance sheet (€3,697  million at December  31, 2023), 
supplemented mainly by a €1,000 million multi -currency 
syndicated credit facility secured on February  9, 2021 
and maturing on February 7, 2028,
 –  borrowings with maturities up to 2032, with only a 
limited portion falling due within 12 months (borrowings 
contractual cash flows due within less than one year – 
see Note  22  to the consolidated financial statements), 
representing only 11% of total borrowings contractual 
cash flows at December 31, 2023.
 Financial rating
The Group’s ability to access financial and banking markets and 
the cost of accessing such markets depend at least in part on the 
credit rating awarded by the rating agency Standard & Poor’s. At 
March 15, 2024 , Capgemini’s credit rating was BBB+/stable outlook .
14  An agile business
141  The main subsidiaries and a simplified Group organizational chart
The Group operates in over 50 countries and through subsidiaries 
– the main subsidiaries are listed in Note 33 to the consolidated 
financial statements.
The parent company, Capgemini SE, via its Board of Directors, 
defines the strategic objectives of the Group and ensures their 
implementation. In its role as a shareholder, Capgemini SE 
contributes, in particular, to the financing of its subsidiaries, either 
in the form of equity or loans. Finally, it makes its trademarks and 
methodologies available to its subsidiaries, notably “Deliver”, and 
receives royalties in this respect.
Capgemini SE notably holds:
 —  the entire share capital of an inter -company service company, 
Capgemini Service S.A.S.; 
 —  the entire share capital of Capgemini Gouvieux S.A.S., which 
operates the Serge Kampf Les Fontaines campus, housing 
the Group’s international training center; 
 —  as well as operating subsidiaries held directly or indirectly via 
regional holding companies. The main operating subsidiaries 
are presented in the simplified organizational chart below.Finally, it is Group policy not to own its business premises, except 
in India where the significant growth and workforce concentration 
justify real estate ownership. The other Group subsidiaries rent 
their business premises from third -party lessors. There is no 
relationship between these lessors and the Group and its senior 
Executive Management.
The sole real estate assets owned by the Group are:
 —  a building owned by SCI Paris Étoile and housing 
Capgemini  SE’s headquarters, located at 11  rue de Tilsitt – 
75017 Paris; 
 —  the Group’s international training center in Gouvieux owned 
by a real estate limited liability Company, Immobilière Les 
Fontaines; 
 —  nine campuses located in India (primarily in Mumbai, 
Bangalore, Hyderabad, Chennai and Noida); 
 —  an Altran site located in Horice in the Czech Republic; 
 —  an Altran site located in Wolfsburg in Germany.

PresenTATIon oF The GrouP And ITs ACTIvITIes
An agile business
22
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT1The organizational chart of the main operating subsidiaries (reporting revenue in excess of €50 million) and the Group’s support and 
resource subsidiaries, directly or indirectly wholly -owned by Capgemini SE, with the exception of Capgemini Technology Services India 
Ltd. (held 99.55%, representing 99.55% of voting rights) is presented below.
Capgemini
Technology
Services
S.A.S.
Altran
Prototype
Automobiles
S.A.S.Capgemini Gouvieux S.A.S.Capgemini Service S.A.S.
Immobilière Les Fontaines S.A.R.L.SCI Paris Etoile Capgemini SE 
South America
AfricaCapgemini
Engineering
Research and
Development
S.A.S.Capgemini
Consulting
S.A.S.
Capgemini
Canada
Inc.Capgemini
Government
Solutions
LLC
Capgemini
Engineering
ACT S.A.S.
Altran
Technology
& Engineering
Center S.A.S.Capgemini
Solutions
Canada Inc.Capgemini
Ireland
LimitedAltran
Technologies
India
Pvt. Ltd.Capgemini 
Nederland 
B.V.
Capgemini
Sverige
AB
Capgemini
Danmark
A/SCapgemini
España
S.L.
Capgemini
Italia
S.p.A.Capgemini
Suisse
S.A.Capgemini
Engineering
Deutschland
S.A.S. & Co. KG
Capgemini
Norge
ASCapgemini
Belgium
N.V./S.A.
Capgemini
Polska
Sp. z.o.o.
Capgemini
Finland
Oy
Lohika
Ltd. LLC
 Capgemini
Portugal
S.A.
Capgemini
Services
Romania
s.r.l.Altran 
Technologies 
S.A.S.Capgemini
America,
Inc.Capgemini 
UK plc
Cambridge 
Consultants 
Ltd.Capgemini
Deutschland
Holding
GmbH
Sogeti
Sverige
ABCapgemini
Finance
Tech
S.r.l.Capgemini
(China)
Co. LtdCapgemini
Technology
Services
India Ltd.
Capgemini
Japan
K.K
Capgemini
Philippines
Corp.Capgemini
Australia
Pty Ltd.
Capgemini
Australia
Pty Ltd.
(New Zealand Branch)
Capgemini
Singapore
Pte. Ltd.
Capgemini
Brasil
LtdaCapgemini
Mexico
S. de R.L.
de C.V.
Capgemini
Technology
Services
Maroc S.A.Altran
Maroc
S.A.R.L.U.Capgemini
New Zealand
Limited
Capgemini
Hong Kong
Ltd.Sogeti
Nederland
B.V.
Capgemini
Engineering
Sverige
ABSogeti
Luxembourg
S.A.Capgemini
Outsourcing
Services
GmbHCapgemini
Deutschland
GmbHFrance North America United Kingdom & Ireland Rest of Europe Other countries
APAC

PresenTATIon oF The GrouP And ITs ACTIvITIes
An agile business
23
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI1142  A client -focused organization
Consistent, unified, and resolutely client-focused, Capgemini’s 
organization draws on the full range of the Group’s expertise 
and develops synergies between businesses, offerings, and the 
geographical areas where the Group serves its clients. The Group 
currently has five Strategic Business Units (SBUs) that address 
markets and manage the Application Business Lines in their markets 
– from 2023, two Application Business Lines are managed globally, 
and five Global Business Lines that manage the rollout of offers 
and skills in their respective fields.
Operating entities
At a global level, Capgemini is organized into major operating units 
(Strategic Business Units or SBU) to work closely with clients and 
respond to market developments. The Group is made up of five 
SBUs, four geographic and one sectoral:
 —  the Southern & Central Europe SBU; 
 —  the Northern & Central Europe SBU; 
 —  the Americas SBU; 
 —  the Asia-Pacific SBU; 
 —  the Global Financial Services SBU.
These SBUs are themselves made up of Business Units (BU), which 
contain several Market Units (MU).
The Business Units deliver and grow the Capgemini offer portfolio 
with all clients in their market and in close collaboration with the 
Global Business Lines.
Market Units are responsible for client relations. They must promote, 
deliver and grow the Capgemini offer portfolio for Business Units. 
Market Units are, for the most part sector -based.
The Strategic Business Units are organized through 30 Business Units:
 —  seven in the Southern & Central Europe SBU: France (four), 
Italy, Spain, Europe Cluster; 
 —  four in the Northern & Central Europe SBU: United Kingdom, 
Germany, the Netherlands, the Nordic countries (Sweden, 
Denmark, Norway and Finland); 
 —  nine in the Americas SBU: United States of America (six), 
Canada, Mexico, Brazil; 
 —  seven in the Asia-Pacific SBU: Australia, China, India, Middle 
East, South East Asia, Japan, Financial Services Asia-Pacific;
 —  four in the Financial Services SBU: Banking, Insurance, 
Continental Europe, Financial Services Asia-Pacific.
The Market Units are mostly organized by sector:
 —  Consumer Goods & Retail; 
 —  Energy & Utilities; 
 —  Financial Services; 
 —  Manufacturing; 
 —  Public Sector; 
 —  Telecoms, Media & Technology; 
 —  S e r v i c e s .
Some Market Units regroup at geographic level local technology 
services. They operate under the brand Sogeti part of Capgemini.
Entities responsible for the offer portfolio and 
delivery teams
Global Business Lines (GBL) and Application Business Lines (ABL) 
have responsibilities linked to the offer portfolio: managing offers 
pre-sales and ensuring delivery quality. These entities must also 
ensure that Group deliverables are competitive and that they 
respond to excellence criteria and client requirements. Finally, 
they must develop talent and manage teams to ensure that the 
Group has the skills in markets which are mature, growing rapidly, 
or emerging.Application Business Lines support Market Units with specific offers, 
expertise, and skills. They help Capgemini to become a market 
leader, and ensure that Group deliverables are competitive, and 
respond to excellence criteria and client requirements.
The Group’s Application Business Lines (ABL) are as follows:
 —  Application Managed Services; 
 —  Package-Based Services; 
 —  Cloud & Custom Applications; 
 —  Digital Customer Experience; 
 —  Testing; 
 —  Business & Technology Solutions.
Beginning 2023, in addition to AMS and DCX, our two largest ABLs, 
C&CA & PBS, started being orchestrated at global level for more 
transversality, industrialization and consistent global solutioning 
and delivery.
The Global Business Lines are managed globally and work closely 
with the Business Units. They aim to develop and reinforce skills 
and expertise in the fields that will be key for Group growth in the 
coming years. The Group’s Global Business Lines are as follows:
 —  Capgemini Invent brings together Capgemini expertise in the 
strategy, technology, data science, and creative design fields 
to support major companies and organizations in creating 
new models and new products within the digital economy; 
 —  Insights & Data (I&D) activates data to deliver real business 
outcomes for the Group’s clients. From ingesting raw data 
to implementing decisive insights, I&D creates and delivers 
the exact capabilities and solutions needed in the era of 
technology-driven change. It provides clients with insight 
in different areas of expertise including data strategy and 
architecture, data engineering, information governance, 
data science and analytics, artificial intelligence, and data-
driven innovation; 
 —  Engineering and R&D is the largest GBL. It leverages the 
Group’s global capabilities in engineering and R&D with 
other Business Lines to provide solution around Intelligent 
Industry; 
 —  Business Services (BSv) ensures the outsourcing and 
transformation of business operations (except IT). BSv 
utilizes the Group’s operational expertise, consulting, and 
digital technology to their fullest, to shape the future of 
business operations. It harnesses intelligent automation and 
a global delivery network to create outstanding value for its 
clients, for Capgemini, and for its people; 
 —  Cloud Infrastructure Services provides next-generation 
cloud infrastructure so clients can build an optimal, agile, 
and secure foundation for business transformations – now 
and into the future, reinforcing cybersecurity every step of 
the way. Cloud Infrastructure Services brings its expertise 
to all entities of Capgemini and delivers the most elusive 
element in cybersecurity today: digital trust, leveraging its 
comprehensive portfolio of services.
The Group’s organization reinforces synergies between Global 
Business Lines, Application Business Lines and Market Units. 
Thanks to this unified business approach, our clients benefit from 
a unique point of contact for all projects with Market Units that 
provide market access orchestration.

PresenTATIon oF The GrouP And ITs ACTIvITIes
An agile business
24
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT1143  Innovation at the heart of Capgemini’s organization
Through its brand promise, “ Get the future you want ”, the Group 
has made a public commitment to put innovation by design at the 
center of everything it does with its clients, partners, employees, 
and the communities in which it operates. To unleash the potential 
of the Group, it has developed several programs.
Technology, Innovation and Ventures
Capgemini’s Technology, Innovation and Ventures (TIV) capabilities 
are brought together to support the needs of its clients. The mission 
of TIV is to orchestrate the Group’s efforts to position Capgemini 
as an innovative company for its stakeholders. TIV contributes to 
Capgemini’s purpose by advising on the responsible application 
of new technologies and innovation. Technology, Innovation and 
Ventures has three objectives:
 —  track weak signals and prepare Capgemini for the next wave 
of technologies; 
 —  nurture a culture of innovation and orchestrate its key 
innovation programs; 
 —  augment the value of the Group’s offers and its industry 
positioning in tune with startup ecosystems.
Find out more at:
https://www.capgemini.com/about-us/who-we-are/innovation-
ecosystem/
The global network of Chief Technology and 
Innovation Officers
The Group’s network of Chief Technology and Innovation Officers 
are in charge of defining Capgemini’s technology and innovation 
strategy within each Strategic Business Unit or Global Business Line 
and developing a Group strategy for specific technology domains. 
They are equipped with best -in-class tools and work with extended 
communities of internal and external technology experts to assess, 
validate and exploit the latest and emerging technology solutions.
Most notably, their foresight is reflected by the Technovision 
program, Capgemini’s extensive point of view on technology 
trends – to help businesses innovate and reinvent themselves 
over the long run. It has also led to the creation of Innovation 
Labs specializing in specific fields, such as quantum technologies, 
generative AI and the metaverse.
Capgemini Applied Innovation Exchanges
The Applied Innovation Exchanges (AIE) form Capgemini’s global 
platform for innovation. This global network of innovation centers 
seeks to apply innovation to concrete client use cases. It leverages 
a proven framework, incorporating curated partner ecosystems 
and Capgemini’s class -leading capabilities – to help our clients 
achieve future industry leadership and get the future they want. 
Thanks to the global coverage of our AIE network, our clients can 
benefit from expertise in cutting -edge technology wherever they 
are in the world.
Capgemini has 22 AIEs worldwide: Bordeaux (France), Grenoble 
(France), Hyderabad (India), Lille (France), London (United Kingdom), 
Madrid (Spain), Malmö-Stockholm (Sweden), Melbourne (Australia), 
Milan (Italy), Mumbai (India), Munich (Germany), Nantes (France), 
New York (USA), Paris (France), Rennes (France), San Francisco 
(USA), Sao Paulo (Brazil), Shenzhen (China), Singapore, Toulouse 
(France), Utrecht (Netherlands) and Wroclaw (Poland).
Using Capgemini’s comprehensive discipline and platform for 
applying innovation, our clients can proceed from a problem or opportunity statement to achieving real business outcomes. They 
therefore possess a unique capacity, both virtually and in person, 
to explore innovative solutions and teach companies how to adopt 
innovation in a secure and responsible manner (the right pace, the 
right scale, and the right means).
The AIE network also specializes in sharing experience and 
expertise. It curates and enhances Capgemini’s ability both to tackle 
the challenges of its clients’ sectors and to select the emerging 
technologies or approaches best suited to each need. With the 
AIEs, clients can rapidly experiment and test the most innovative 
technologies to support their digital transformation including 
artificial intelligence, augmented and virtual reality, quantum 
computing, cloud, cybersecurity… and contextualize them for 
their specific industry needs.
Capgemini Ventures
Innovation needs a thriving ecosystem that provides partnerships 
and investment initiatives for both large organizations and the 
brightest startups. Capgemini Ventures address this need:
 —  Startup Catalyst  makes interactions with the startup 
ecosystem a driver of growth and market differentiation 
with the help of two levers:
 –  a catalog of services intended for the Group’s operational 
teams to assist them in identifying and qualifying the 
startups capable of enhancing service offers delivered 
to customers, while helping them formalize these 
partnerships,
 –  a venture capital fund jointly set -up with ISAI in 2019 
worth €80 million for minority investments in promising 
startups for which Capgemini acts as a strategic global 
partner on the market. In 2023, the Group continued to 
invest in innovation leading startups. Blackshark.AI is one 
of these startups. It is working to design an ultra -realistic 
digital twin of the entire Earth, using AI and satellite 
observation technology. The investment at the end of 
2023 in Liquid.AI is another example. This Massachusetts 
Institute of Technology spin -off specializes in Liquid 
Neural Networks (LNN) and is seeking to revolutionize 
the world of AI;
 —  Business v entures , working with operational teams, 
establishes strategic industrial partnerships as a minority 
shareholder to co -create value in the new company. Some 
notable investments developed in recent years include: 
Future4Care, a European healthcare startup accelerator; 
“Bleu”, a company to provide a “Cloud de Confiance” in 
France jointly created by Capgemini and Orange; joining the 
Verkor venture, as a partner, to reinforce the European value 
chain for low -carbon batteries; and Azqore, a partnership 
with Indosuez Wealth Management.
Capgemini Research Institute
The Capgemini Research Institute is Capgemini’s internal think -tank. 
Drawing on its global network of experts, universities, startups, 
and partners across sectors, it is a recognized study and research 
center in the global digital ecosystem.
With the help of dedicated research centers in the United Kingdom, 
the United States, France, India and Singapore, the Institute publishes 
various reports each year on major trends – particularly disruptive 
ones – focusing on digital, innovation, inclusion, and sustainability.

PresenTATIon oF The GrouP And ITs ACTIvITIes
solid performance in 2023
25
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI1The Institute’s reports and studies are known for their unique 
actionable data and recommendations. The Institute also publishes 
a quarterly journal, Conversations for Tomorrow , enabling leaders to 
identify the strategic imperatives for the future of business and 
society. The seventh edition was published in 2023: “ Sustainability 
and Climate Tech ”. This publication focused on what is widely 
considered to be today’s most pressing issue for not only businesses, 
but humanity as a whole – climate change and the actions we must 
take to reduce its effects.
The Institute often works with major academic institutions and 
engages closely with leading startups across the world. The 
Capgemini Research Institute has consistantly been ranked as #1 
in the world for the quality of its research seven times in a row. 
– an industry first.
For a list of key reports and studies published in 2023, see Section 1.5.1.
Capgemini Centers of Excellence
Capgemini Centers of Excellence are deployed within the operational 
organizations, Business Lines and Global Business Lines. They 
are coordinated and controlled at a global level by Group Offer 
Leaders and more broadly by the Group Chief Portfolio Officer. 
They carry out four tasks:
1  They create and deploy go -to-market offers with the support 
of the Capgemini partner ecosystem for sales teams.
2  The Centers of Excellence support Business Units and Market 
Units during the offer pre -sales phase. They help sales teams 
to identify and qualify possible opportunities and prepare 
proposals for clients.3  They are responsible for specialized business development 
actions with key accounts per offer, and for promoting 
offers with a consistent message to clients, media, analysts, 
advisors, and partners. They also work with the Marketing 
team to present our position and our vision across different 
communication channels.
4  They provide the appropriate level of expertise for the most 
recent technologies and services, recruiting and retaining 
talent, and supporting key delivery phases.
A global ecosystem of leading technology partners 
and emerging partners
To stay at the forefront of technology, Capgemini forms strategic 
partnerships based on continuous innovation with the most 
innovative technology companies in the world – from startups to 
major international groups. These companies provide a baseline 
platform, and the Group works with them to make continuous 
innovation a business differentiator, creating new offers and 
synergies to respond to the most demanding challenges, whether 
that’s designing new business models, improving performance 
levels through automation, or conquering new markets.
This global ecosystem brings together leading experts in their fields 
and offers a new perspective on technology and digital trends. It 
also encourages experimentation and the design of innovative 
offers, taking into account a unique industry approach.
For more information about the technology partner ecosystem, 
see Section 1.2.4.
15  Solid performance in 2023
151  Recognized Publications
To help our clients analyze major trends in markets, interpret the 
impact of new technologies on their businesses and anticipate 
challenges, the Capgemini Research Institute publishes various 
reports and themed studies each year.
24 studies were published by the Capgemini Research Institute 
in 2023.
On key themes that matter to our clients. All Group publications 
can be found at: https://www.capgemini.com/insights/research-
institute/
Sustainability
Green hydrogen
Low -carbon hydrogen is gaining recognition as one of the possible 
routes to accelerating decarbonization of high -emission sectors. 
However, the most prominent production pathways for hydrogen 
continue to rely on the use of fossil fuels. In “Low‑carbon hydrogen: A path to a greener future”  we answer the question of “what is 
green hydrogen?” assess the current state of it and look at how 
organizations can capitalize on the opportunities that it creates. To 
this end, we surveyed over 800 global executives from the Energy 
and Utilities sector as well as end -user sectors and interviewed 
experts across a variety of organizations.
Biodiversity
Biodiversity is vital for healthy ecosystems, but human activity 
threatens it, increasing pressure on the planet and upsetting 
its balance. Over half of global GDP is potentially threatened by 
biodiversity loss. In “Preserving the fabric of life: Why biodiversity 
loss is as urgent as climate change”  we examine the importance 
of biodiversity, how its loss is linked with climate change and 
the urgency of tackling the biodiversity crisis for the corporate 
sector. We surveyed over 1,800 executives across 12 countries 
in 15 industries and interviewed biodiversity and sustainability 
leaders at large organizations globally.

PresenTATIon oF The GrouP And ITs ACTIvITIes
solid performance in 2023
26
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT1sustainability trends 2nd edition
In last year’s inaugural edition of the A World in Balance  series, 
we found that, while organizations across industries have set 
long -term targets for achieving environmental sustainability, 
limited implementation is visible on the ground.
In “A World in Balance 2023: Heightened sustainability awareness 
yet lagging actions”  we examine the evolving sustainability trends, 
both environmental and social, for the global corporate sector. To 
assess the current state, we conducted a global industry survey of 
2,151 executives from 718 organizations, and a consumer survey 
involving 6,500 respondents.
Climate tech
Climate technologies – a diverse range of innovative technologies 
that includes renewables, batteries, low -carbon hydrogen, carbon 
capture, and alternative fuels – are crucial to formulating an effective 
response to the climate and ecological crisis. In “Climate Tech: 
Harnessing the power of technology for a sustainable future” , 
we offer insights into the importance of climate tech in meeting 
sustainability goals, challenges impeding climate tech adoption, 
and strategies for accelerating adoption. To support our analysis, 
we surveyed 1,350 senior executives from large organizations that 
have plans to decarbonize or reach net zero and 500 large VCs and 
financial services organizations.
Generative AI
Generative AI for consumers
Generative AI is becoming an integral part of many people’s 
personal and working lives for activities traditionally thought 
exclusive to the human mind, such as generating content and 
brainstorming. In “Why consumers love generative AI” , we explore 
how consumers have received generative AI, how their interaction 
with technology is shaping the future of the consumer experience 
and offer guidance for using generative AI responsibly. To gauge 
consumer perceptions of generative AI, we conducted a global 
survey of 10,000 consumers.
Generative AI for organizations
Many organizations already see generative AI as a powerful tool 
that can accelerate growth, enhance capabilities, and unlock new 
opportunities without drastic restructuring of business models. 
In “Harnessing the value of generative AI: Top use cases across 
industries” , we investigate the transformative potential of generative 
AI for organizations across industries, highlighting the function 
and industry -specific use cases believed to have the greatest 
potential; comparing adoption rates across industries; and providing 
suggestions to organizations to help them on their generative AI 
journeys. To gauge executives’ perceptions of generative AI, we 
conducted a global survey of 1,000 large organizations.
CMo playbook on generative AI
In a remarkably short time, generative AI has gained widespread 
popularity, emerging as a transformative force in marketing. 
Currently, almost 60% of organizations are integrating generative 
AI into their marketing efforts, from minimal to no adoption just 
a year ago. In “Generative AI and the evolving role of marketing: A CMO’s playbook” , we surveyed 1,800 Chief Marketing Officers 
(CMOs) or marketing executives and interviewed 25 CMOs and 
marketing leaders with firsthand knowledge of their organization’s 
generative AI initiatives. We explored the rapid integration of 
generative AI in the marketing domain and outlined best practices 
for organizations to effectively harness generative AI in marketing.
Data and Insights
Consumer trends 2nd edition
In last year’s first edition of our annual research series, What 
matters to today’s consumer , we found that consumer sentiment 
and expectations had shifted dramatically over the preceding 
18 months. In “What matters to today’s consumer 2023” , we see 
many of these trends persisting, alongside the emergence of new 
consumer trends. Through a global survey of over 11,000 consumers 
across 11 countries, we explore how consumers have changed their 
decision -making and purchasing behavior in light of the cost -of-living 
crisis, how concerned consumers are about stockouts, and how 
social media influencers wield increasing power over consumer 
decision -making.
Investment trends
As organizations battle rising prices, volatile supply chains, climate 
issues, talent scarcity, and the ongoing repercussions of the 
disruption caused by the pandemic, we wanted to find out how 
organizations are managing costs while undertaking transformation 
of their portfolios. In “Advancing through headwinds: Where 
are organizations investing?” , we specifically examine changing 
investment strategies in areas such as digital transformation, supply 
chain, talent and skills, and sustainability. To do so, we surveyed 
executives from 2,000 unique organizations across 15 countries 
in a wide range of sectors.
data ecosystems in public sector
Governments today are expected to address a wide range of complex, 
interconnected challenges. This requires joined -up, data -driven, and 
evidence -based action. However, not all of the data that can best 
support such action is readily available. Therefore, data ecosystems 
– which provide a systematic approach to data sharing – have 
become vital for public sector organizations. In “Connecting the 
dots: Data sharing in the public sector” , we surveyed 1,000 senior 
officials from public sector organizations and interviewed over 
20 senior public sector leaders and academics.
Global wealth outlook
The wealth industry is undergoing a paradigm shift fueled by 
changing demographics, generational wealth transfer, and rapidly 
expanding digitalization. In our “World Wealth Report 2023,” we 
surveyed 3,171 high-net-worth-individuals (HNWI), 3,203 affluent 
individuals, 90 financial services executives, and 800 relationship 
managers across major wealth markets in North America, Latin 
America, Europe, and the Asia-Pacific region. We found that the 
global HNWI population dropped by 3.3% to 21.7 million in 2022, 
while the value of its wealth decreased by 3.6% to USD 83 trillion. 
This marks the steepest drop in 10 years (2013 -2022) triggered by 
geopolitical and macroeconomic uncertainty.

PresenTATIon oF The GrouP And ITs ACTIvITIes
solid performance in 2023
27
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI1Cloud
Cloudification of networks
The transferal of mobile networks to cloud – particularly, 5G network 
core, which can be deployed in a cloud -native form – has been a 
key driver of telco cloud transformation. In “Networks on cloud: 
A clear advantage” , we surveyed 270 executives from large Cloud 
service providers (CSPs), network equipment providers (NEPs), 
niche equipment vendors (NEVs), hyperscalers, CaaS vendors, and 
large cloud providers. We found that by transforming to cloud, a 
typical telco from our survey can improve its network total cost 
of ownership by $260 to $380 million and can gain an early -mover 
advantage to the tune of $110 to $210 million in additional revenue.
Cloud adoption in financial services (FS)
Challenged by macroeconomic volatility and other market dynamics, 
the financial services industry is struggling to maintain business 
growth momentum. As a result, many firms are strategically 
embracing digital transformation, and adoption of cloud -enabled 
solutions is essential to gaining competitive advantage. In our 
inaugural “World Cloud Report– Financial Services”, we revealed 
that 91% of banks and insurance companies have now initiated their 
cloud journey, a significant increase from 2020, when only 37% of 
firms had embarked on their cloud transformations. The study 
uses global data from two primary research surveys of financial 
services executives and technology ecosystem partners as well 
as more than 30 interviews with financial services executives and 
hyperscalers/cloud technology providers.
People and Talent
digital skills and education
With today’s massive flow of information online, acquiring 
digital skills has become a necessity for everyone – but especially 
for students – who will be entering a workforce that has been 
fundamentally transformed by technology. In “Future‑ready 
education: Empowering secondary school students with digital 
skills” , we conducted a global survey of 1 ,800 teachers from 
public/state secondary schools, 4,500 parents of secondary school 
students, and 900 secondary school students aged 11 to 18. Our 
research reveals that secondary school students are not sufficiently 
confident in the digital skills required to thrive in the 21st century. 
This is particularly pronounced in certain student cohorts, such as 
those in rural areas.
Intelligent Industry
digital twins in aerospace and defense (A& d)
Of the technological advancements on the digital frontier in 
recent years, digital twin technology has been one of the most 
talked about. In “Mirroring reality: Digital twins in aerospace and 
defense” , we sought to answer four pressing questions about the 
A&D industry’s relationship with digital twins: Are organizations 
continuing to invest in digital twins? If they are, what’s driving 
these investments? In which areas do digital twins add value? How 
can organizations successfully scale their initiatives? To do so, we 
surveyed 150 A&D organizations, 80% of which have an ongoing 
digital twin program, while the remainder plan to implement one.supply chain in automotive
Recent disruption to the global automotive supply chain has called 
into question the industry’s conventional wisdom. In “Automotive 
Supply Chain: Pursuing long‑term resilience” , we look at how 
automotive companies can move towards a resilient, connected, 
intelligent, and sustainable supply chain in this transformed 
landscape. To fortify our findings, we surveyed 1,004 senior executives 
across 449 global automotive organizations and interviewed over 
20 automotive experts. We found that the automotive industry is 
cutting back on offshore procurement. Sustainability efforts have 
taken a backseat amid supply chain crises, and current data -driven 
supply chain initiatives lack maturity and investment.
supply chain in consumer products and retail (CP r)
In the past few years, supply chains have seen massive disruption 
amid a slew of worldwide economic, geopolitical, and health 
challenges. The CPR industry in particular has to deal with unique 
challenges related to last -mile delivery and consumer demand and 
spending. In “Illuminating the path: Building resilient and efficient 
supply chains in the consumer products and retail industry” , we 
surveyed 300 senior executives from leading CPG firms and retailers 
globally to examine the leading supply chain themes prevalent in 
the industry. A substantial 82% of surveyed organizations believe 
their supply chain will need to change significantly to meet today’s 
challenges.
Innovation and Emerging Tech
open innovation
Open innovation, the practice of collaborating with external 
entities to co -create new value, has become essential to business 
success. In “The power of open minds: How open innovation offers 
benefits for all” , we drill down into the newfound relevance of 
open innovation to large organizations and their partners. To 
support our analysis, we surveyed 2,000 senior executives from 
1,000 large organizations that have ongoing open innovation 
initiatives and 500 startups, academics, and non -profits that have 
worked with large organizations on open innovation projects. We 
complemented the surveys with in -depth interviews with 32 senior 
executives and experts.
softwarization
In today’s rapidly evolving business landscape, every company must 
become a software company, regardless of its industry or sector. Yet, 
as organizations embark on their software -driven transformation 
journeys, they encounter an array of challenges impeding scale.  
In “The art of software: The new route to value creation across  
industries” , we lay out the six key pillars of a successful software 
transformation for organizations to follow. To this end, we 
surveyed 1,500 respondents from unique organizations across 
13 countries, 90% of which have/are building a strategy to become 
a software -driven organization, focusing on software -defined 
products/services.

PresenTATIon oF The GrouP And ITs ACTIvITIes
solid performance in 2023
28
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT1Tech in sports
Technology now plays a vital part in many aspects of sports – 
enhancing the viewing experience, encouraging fan engagement, 
assisting teams and players to increase performance, and more. In 
“A whole new ball game: Why sports tech is a game‑changer” , we 
surveyed 12,000 sports fans across 11 countries and interviewed 
15 professional sportspeople and industry experts. We found 
that fans increasingly use technology to enhance their viewing 
experience both inside and outside the venue. The benefits of 
technology are extensive and span fan engagement, news and 
insights, experience enhancement, and new immersive and digital 
experiences.
Conversations for Tomorrow
The Capgemini Research Institute launched its new journal, 
Conversations for Tomorrow , in 2021. The quarterly review features 
a wide variety of content, including interviews, articles by guest 
contributors, and insights from some of the Institute’s reports. 
Below is our latest publication.Climate tech: for a sustainable planet
Sustainability and climate tech are no longer an option; they are a 
business imperative. This edition looks at the issue through the eyes 
of scientists, Chief Sustainability Officers (CSOs), climate leaders, 
and young activists. The key contributors include a Nobel Prize 
laureate in chemistry, a world -renowned architect and author, one 
of the world’s leading climate scientists, the CEOs of Air Liquide 
and Capgemini, senior executives from P&G, Volvo Group, Enel 
Green Power, and L’Oréal, the Deputy Executive Secretary of the 
United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, the 
head of a solar panel gigafactory, a range of startups, including a 
top unicorn in carbon capture, Gen next climate activists from the 
US, Kenya, and India, plus, Capgemini’s own experts.
152  Major contratcs won in 2023
Securing an in‑balance UK power system
National Grid Electricity System Operator (ESO), a UK energy 
company, needed to incentivize businesses and consumers to reduce 
electricity consumption at times of high demand during winter 
months. To achieve this, ESO appointed Capgemini to lead and 
coordinate a cross-ESO project to launch a national demand -side 
response service, the Demand Flexibility Service (DFS). This involved 
leading the critical activities to design and implement process, 
tooling and data changes and managing the project team from 
design through to closure. Through our leadership, DFS was scaled 
and launched in just four months, signing up 31 providers with 
> 1.6 million homes and business. The service was used 22 times 
between November 2022 and March 2023, avoiding blackouts to 
consumers and additional fossil fueled power generation – and 
760 tons of associated CO2 emissions – to meet peak demand and 
ensure a secure, in -balance UK power system.
Centro de Telecomunicaciones y Tecnolog’as de la 
Información (Spain)
Capgemini signed two contracts spanning over the course of the 
next two years to be a Digital services provider to the Centro de 
Telecomunicaciones y Tecnolog’as de la Información (CTTI), a public 
company that integrates all IT and telecommunications services of 
the Generalitat de Catalunya, Spain. Responsible for enabling the 
development and maintenance of all web portals and intranets per 
the first contract, and of over 100 of the organization’s applications 
per the second. Through two Proof of Concepts, the agreements 
also involve exploring the possibilities offered by the metaverse 
and implementing AI, unique solutions that enable innovation, 
making the most of the very latest technologies to realize value.
Eneco (The Netherlands)
Eneco, a renewable energy and innovation group, and Capgemini 
have committed to reducing Eneco’s CO2 emissions by one megaton 
by 2030. This is part of a 10 -year agreement to accelerate Eneco’s 
transition to sustainable energy and achieve carbon neutrality by 
2035. The collaboration will leverage engineering, digital, data & 
AI, and business technology to achieve this goal. Capgemini’s work 
with Eneco will focus on business model, process, and technology 
innovation and is expected to contribute approximately 17% towards 
Eneco’s 2030 carbon reduction goal, and encourages cross -industry 
collaboration with all stakeholders to achieve a sustainable future.Eramet (France)
Eramet joined forces with Capgemini to use AI to revolutionize mining 
operations at its subsidiary in Senegal, Grande Côte Opérations 
(GCO), specialized in mineralized sands. The collaboration led to 
the creation of the “Connected Concession”, a platform designed 
to improve vegetation inventory and monitoring of mined lands to 
support re -vegetation and land rehabilitation efforts after mining 
is complete, utilizing 3D drone imagery. The project, executed 
entirely remotely over the course of a year, earned Eramet the 
Netexplo Change 2022 Trophy, and Capgemini Invent was awarded 
the Silver Trophy at the Grand Prix Syntec Conseil 2022, in the 
“social, societal and environmental impact” category.
Euroclear (Belgium)
Euroclear collaborated with Capgemini to launch the Digital 
Securities Issuance (D-SI) service, a key milestone in Euroclear’s 
Digital Financial Market Infrastructure (D-FMI) strategy. The 
success of the D-FMI program will streamline processes, increase 
transparency, provide real -time access to critical financial data, 
and revolutionize the traditional financial market infrastructure. As 
the lead system integrator, Capgemini provided a comprehensive 
range of services, enabling the issuance and settlement of fully 
digital international securities on distributed ledger technology 
(DLT), as well as the overall integration of the new D-FMI platform 
within existing systems and infrastructure.
InPost Group (Poland)
Capgemini was chosen by InPost Group, a European leader in 
e-commerce logistics for its move to SAP S/4HANA® Cloud, aimed to 
standardize operations, facilitate its rapid growth, enhance speed 
and efficiency. With Capgemini’s expertise in SAP solutions, key 
processes were transformed and optimized by transitioning to the 
cloud. With real -time decision -making through analytics, InPost 
is now able to respond quickly to new challenges and develop 
innovative solutions that will contribute to its business growth. This 
collaboration will enable InPost Group to leverage the potential 
of cloud business transformation, creating a digital environment 
that is more resilient to market turmoil, optimized, and highly 
automated. The introduction of state -of-the-art analytics and live 
reporting will help InPost make strategic decisions in real time.

PresenTATIon oF The GrouP And ITs ACTIvITIes
solid performance in 2023
29
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI1Lifecycle Optimization for Aerospace platform (USA)
Amazon Web Services (AWS) and Capgemini have jointly launched 
the Lifecycle Optimization for Aerospace platform, designed to 
promote circular economy practices in the aviation industry. Several 
major players in the aerospace industry, including Air France and 
Safran, will be among the first users of the platform. Improving 
the utilization of existing products and recycling equipment has a 
part to play in the industry’s journey towards its sustainable future. 
Lifecycle Optimization for Aerospace allows us to take concrete 
action to support the collaboration of various actors around one 
common objective: to extend the use of serviceable parts or find 
the appropriate value chain to secure recycling while decarbonizing 
certain elements in the short term. AI and Machine Learning services 
have been specifically developed by Capgemini and built on AWS’s 
Cloud. The platform automates the inspection process, optimizes 
lifecycle analysis of aircraft parts, and assists in decision -making to prolong their usability. It also consolidates historical operation 
data, reconstructs a complete traceability of all the constituent 
parts of an aircraft, and securely collects and analyzes in -service 
operations data, enabling the potential re -use of aircraft parts. It 
aims to reduce the environmental impact of equipment and enable 
a more sustainable future for the aviation industry.
Stichting Pensioenregister (The Netherlands)
Stichting Pensioenregister, an independent foundation dedicated 
to pension transparency, selected Capgemini to ensure application 
support, maintenance, and the advancement of the national 
pensions digital dashboard. This collaboration aims to enact Stichting 
Pensioenregister’s digital transformation initiatives over the course 
of a five -year contract, modernizing and developing the platform to 
enable innovative features such as mobile applications, providing 
a seamless and enhanced best in class in digital user experience.

PresenTATIon oF The GrouP And ITs ACTIvITIes
solid performance in 2023
30
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT1153  Financial highlights
Consolidated financial statements
(in millions of euros) 2019(3) 2020(4) 2021 2022 2023 
Revenues 14,125 15,848 18,160 21,995 22,522 
Operating expenses (12,384) (13,969) (15,820) (19,128) (19,531) 
Operating margin(1) 1,741 1,879 2,340 2,867 2,991 
% of revenues 12.3% 11.9% 12.9% 13.0% 13.3% 
Operating profit 1,433 1,502 1,839 2,393 2,346 
% of revenues 10.1% 9.5% 10.1% 10.9% 10.4% 
Profit for the period attributable to  
owners of the Company 856 957 1,157 1,547 1,663 
% of revenues 6.0% 6.1% 6.4% 7.0% 7.4% 
Earnings per share      
Average number of shares outstanding during the period 166,171,198 167,620,101 168,574,058 170,251,066 171,350,138 
Basic earnings per share (in euros)  5.15 5.71 6.87 9.09 9.70 
Normalized earnings per share(1) (in euros)  (2) 6.76 7.23 9.19 11.52 12.44 
Dividend per share for the year (in euros)  1.35 1.95 2.40 3.25(5) 3.40 
Goodwill (at December 31)  7,662 9,795 10,633 11,090 11,213 
Equity attributable to owners of the Company  
(at December 31)  8,424 6,103 8,467 9,727 10,454 
(Net debt)/Net cash and cash equivalents(1)  
(at December 31)  (600) (4,904) (3,224) (2,566) (2,047) 
Organic free cash flow(1) (at December 31)  1,288 1,119 1,873 1,852 1,963 
Average number of employees 216,104 251,525 292,690 347,758 349,793 
Number of employees (at December 31)  219,314 269,769 324,684 359,567 340,443 
(1) Operating margin, normalized earnings per share, net debt/net cash and cash equivalents and organic free cash flow, alternative performance measures monitored by the 
Group, are defined in Note 3 – Alternative performance measures, to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2023.
(2) Excluding an exceptional income tax expense of €73 million, €36 million and €60 million, respectively, in 2022, 2021 and 2019 and exceptional income tax income of 
€8 million in 2020.
(3) Data from exercise 2019 reflects the application of IFRS 16, Leases, using the modified retrospective method.
(4) 2020 data reflects the consolidation of Altran from April 1, 2020.
(5) Subject to approval by the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 16, 2024.

PresenTATIon oF The GrouP And ITs ACTIvITIes
solid performance in 2023
31
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI1154  Extra ‑financial highlights
Topics objectives Key Performance Indicator unit 2019 2022 2023 
Environment Be carbon neutral for our own 
operations no later than 2025 
and across our supply chain 
by 2030, and committed to 
becoming a net zero business 
by 2040Absolute Scope 1 and 2 emissions tCO2e 153,877 18,916 13,328 √ 
Employee commuting emissions 
per headcount (average total 
headcount)tCO2e/
head1.08 0.36 0.50 √ 
Purchased goods and services  
– Scope 3tCO2e 299,887 365,650 349,522 √ 
Business travel emissions 
per headcount (average total 
headcount)tCO2e/
head1.26 0.40 0.50 √ 
Transition to 100% renewable 
electricity by 2025, and electric 
vehicles by 2030Total energy use – % of electricity 
from renewables% 28% 88% 96% √ 
Help our clients to save 
10M tCO2e by 2030tCO2e savings delivered for our 
clientstCO2e
Social Increase average learning hours 
per employee by 5% every 
year to ensure regular lifelong 
learningAverage Completed Learning 
Hours per headcount at the end 
of the year, trained during the 
reporting periodHours 41.9 (C) 51.4 53.8 
40% of women in our teams by 
2025% of women in the workforce % 33.0% (C) 37.8% 38.8% √ 
5M beneficiaries supported by 
our digital inclusion programs 
by 2030Cumulated number of Digital 
Inclusion beneficiaries  
(since 2018)# 29,012(C) 1,899,744 4,376,777 √ 

PresenTATIon oF The GrouP And ITs ACTIvITIes
solid performance in 2023
32
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT1Topics objectives Key Performance Indicator unit 2019 2022 2023 
Governance 30% of women in Executive 
leadership positions in 2025% of women in Executive leadership 
positions% 16.8% (C) 24.4% 26.2% √ 
Maintain best -in-class 
Corporate GovernanceMSCI ESG rating on Corporate 
GovernanceText  Rating 
achievedRating 
achieved 
√ 
Maintain over 80% of the 
workforce with an Ethics score 
of between 7 -10% of the headcount (average total 
headcount), with an Ethics score of 
between 7 and 10%  87% 86% 
By 2030, suppliers covering 
80% of the purchase amount 
of the previous year, will 
have committed to our ESG 
standards% of new vendors above 50K 
euros spend committed to the ESG 
Standards enforced by Supplier 
Standards of Conduct commitments%  55% 40% 
Be recognized as a front 
leader in data protection and 
cybersecurityCyber Rating agencies  
– CyberVadis score (out of 1,000)score  942 958 √ 
Cyber Rating agencies  
– RiskRecon score  
(out of 10, 6 -month average)score  7.7 (B) 8 (B) √ 
Cyber Rating agencies – BitSight 
(out of 900 – 6 -month average)score  730 – 
Basic718 – 
Interme -
diate √ 
% of DPO (number of DPO at the 
end of the year) certified with one 
of the external official certifying 
bodies (worldwide scope)%  65% 72% √ 
% of revenues associated with 
client engagements triggering 
processing of personal data subject 
to an end -to-end digital maturity 
assessment%  79% 79% 
Scope: (C) Capgemini Legacy; otherwise Capgemini group.
√ Data identified in these tables by a √ has been reviewed by Mazars with a reasonable level of assurance.

33
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI221 ——  COMPANY MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION  35
211   History 35
212   Governance structure 36
213   Composition of the Board of Directors 39
214   Information on the members of the Board of Directors 48
215   Group Management 67
216   Transactions carried out in the Company’s shares 71
22 ——  ORGANIZATION AND ACTIVITIES OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS  72
221   Organization of the Board of Directors 72
222   Activities of the Board of Directors in 2023 76
223   Assessment of the Board of Directors 78
224   Role and composition of the four specialized board committees 80
23 ——  COMPENSATION OF CORPORATE OFFICERS  85
231   Directors’ compensation 85
232		Executive	Corporate	Officer	compensation	policy	 86
233		Compensation	paid	in	2023	or	granted	in	respect	of	2023	to	Executive	Corporate	Officers	 92
234		Share	subscription	options,	share	purchase	options	and	performance	shares	 105CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE

CorPor ATe GovernAnCe
 
34
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT2Benchmark Corporate Governance Code and Board of Directors’ report on 
Corporate Governance
The Board of Directors’ report on Corporate Governance was 
prepared pursuant to:
 —  the provisions set out in the last paragraph of Article 
L.  225 -37, Article L.  225 -37-4 and Article L.  22 -10-10  of the 
French Commercial Code ( Code de commerce) ; 
 —  the recommendations set out in the “Corporate Governance 
Code” issued jointly by AFEP and MEDEF (French private 
business associations) in December 2008 (recommendations 
immediately adopted by our Board of Directors as a 
benchmark), as revised in December 2022 and its application 
guidelines; 
 —  as well as the rules of good governance, adopted, applied 
and complied with continuously by the Capgemini group 
since the closing of its first fiscal year on December 31, 1968 
(i.e. more than 50 years ago!).This report was approved by the Board of Directors on February 13, 
2024, following its review by the Compensation Committee and 
the Ethics & Governance Committee.
A detailed Cross-Reference Table is presented for the Corporate 
Governance report in Section 9.3 of the Universal Registration 
Document (Cross-Reference Table for the management report). 
Most of the information is presented in Chapter 2.
Under the “Comply or Explain” rule provided for in Article L. 22 -10-10, 
paragraph 4, of the French Commercial Code and stipulated in 
Article 28.1 of the AFEP-MEDEF Corporate Governance Code for 
listed companies revised in December 2022, the Company considers 
that its practices comply fully with the recommendations of the 
current AF eP-M ede F Code .
The AFEP-MEDEF Code and its application guidelines may be 
consulted at www.afep.com  or www.medef.com .

CorPor ATe GovernAnCe
Company management and administration
35
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI221  Company management and administration
211  History
The Capgemini group was founded over 50 years ago in 1967 
by Mr. Serge Kampf, who was still Honorary Chairman and Vice-
Chairman at the time of his death on March 15, 2016. Capgemini was 
marked by his quite exceptional personality. He was an exceptional 
entrepreneur and a captain of industry the likes of which are rarely 
seen. In 1967, he was among the first to understand the role of an 
IT services company. He had taken the Group to the top of its sector 
when he handed Mr. Paul Hermelin the Executive Management of 
the Group in 2002, followed by the Chair of the Board in 2012. He 
built the Group based on principles that still apply today: a spirit of 
enterprise, a passion for clients, an obsession to help employees 
grow, ethical conduct at all times and performance at its best.
The story of this half -century can be split into four major periods:
 —  period one (1967‑1996): 29 years of independence
Sogeti was created in Grenoble in October 1967 as a “traditional” 
limited liability company, managed nearly 30 years by the same 
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Serge Kampf, its founder 
and the uncontested leader of a brilliant team of managers that he 
formed around him and never ceased to promote. Fully conscious 
that the Group – if it were to attain the increasingly ambitious 
objectives that he set each year – could not restrict much longer 
its financial capacities to those of its founding Chairman, Mr. Serge 
Kampf finally accepted in January 1996 under friendly pressure 
from the two other “main” shareholders (CGIP, a partner since 
1988 and Daimler Benz, shareholder since 1991):
 —  to propose to the Shareholders’ Meeting of May  24, 1996 
the merger -absorption within Capgemini of the two holding 
companies that had until then enabled him to retain majority 
control; 
 —  to participate (personally in the amount of FRF 300 million) 
in a share capital increase of FRF 2.1 billion, with the balance 
subscribed in equal parts (FRF 900  million) by Daimler and 
CGIP; 
 —  and finally to transfer the head office from Grenoble to Paris.
In May 1996, at the end of this initial period, the Group had 
25,000 employees (7,000 in France, nearly 4,000 in the United 
States, some 12,000 in the triangle formed by the UK, Benelux 
and the Nordic countries and around 2,000 across approximately 
10 other countries) – a 625 -fold increase on its initial headcount! 
– and reported annual revenues of approximately FRF 13 billion 
(€2 billion), i.e. per capita  revenues of around FRF 520,000 (€80,000).
 —  period two (1996 -2002): a change in ownership
On May 24, 1996, as announced in January to key Group managers, 
Mr. Serge Kampf presented his proposals to the Shareholders’ 
Meeting which adopted them with a large majority. Just after, 
a two -tier structure – more familiar to the German shareholder 
than the French société anonyme  – was introduced for a four -year 
period, with Mr. Serge Kampf as Chairman of the Management 
Board and Mr. Klaus Mangold (Daimler-Benz) as Chairman of the 
Supervisory Board. One year later, following Daimler-Benz’s decision 
to refocus on its core businesses (a decision confirmed soon after 
by the spectacular takeover of Chrysler), this latter was replaced by 
Mr. Ernest-Antoine Seillière, Chairman of CGIP (now the principal 
shareholder of the Group, with 30% of the share capital). At the 
end of this four -year period, the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 23, 
2000 held to approve the 1999 financial statements decided not 
to renew this two -tier governance structure and to reinstate Mr. 
Serge Kampf in his duties as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 
and to create at his request a position of general manager, which 
had never really existed within the Group. The first holder of this 
position was Mr. Geoff Unwin, already considered to be the Group’s 
number two within the Management Board.At the end of the 1990s, having recovered its independence, 
Capgemini benefited fully from the euphoria generated by the 
“internet bubble”, the Year 2000 and the birth of the Euro. The 
Group had great ambitions. A major milestone was reached in 2000 
with the acquisition of Ernst & Young Consulting, making Capgemini 
a new global leader in its sector and consolidating its positions in 
the United States. However, the Group was hit hard by the 2001 
economic crisis triggered by the burst of the internet bubble and 
difficulties integrating Ernst & Young Consulting.
In December 2001, after a difficult year whose disappointing 
results only confirmed the threat of recession hanging over the 
global economy at that time, the Group had 55,000 employees 
and reported annual revenues of around €7 billion, i.e. per capita  
revenues of approximately €125,000, more than 50% above that of 
the first period but merely the reflection of the incorporation in the 
headcount in May 2000 of 16,643 consultants from Ernst & Young.
Taking note of the decision made – and confirmed – by Mr. 
Geoff Unwin to retire in the near future, the Board of Directors 
decided, at the recommendation of its Chairman, to appoint as 
his replacement Mr. Paul Hermelin, who became Group general 
manager alongside Mr. Serge Kampf, Chairman and Chief Executive 
Officer, on January 1, 2002.
 —  period three (2002 -2012): a well -prepared power transfer
On July 24, 2002, Mr. Serge Kampf took the initiative to recommend 
to the Board of Directors – which accepted – to separate the duties 
of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, as recently made possible 
by the New Economic Regulations Law (NRE). He considered that 
after creating, expanding, leading and managing the Group for 
35 years, the time had come for him to give more power and visibility 
to the person he considered the best qualified to succeed him one 
day. This two -man team operated efficiently and in harmony for 
10 years, although, according to Mr. Serge Kampf, this was due 
more to the relationship of trust, friendship and mutual respect 
between the two individuals than what the NRE says regarding 
the respective roles, powers and responsibilities of the Chairman 
and the Chief Executive Officer.
Despite the heavy storm which battered the Group during the first 
four years of this period, the Group invested considerable sums 
in major restructuring operations, the most obvious outcome of 
which was the reinvigoration of all Group companies: for example, 
at the end of 2011, the Group had 120,000 employees (compared 
with 55,000 employees 10 years previously) and reported revenues 
of €10 billion compared with €7 billion in 2001.
 —  period four (2012 to this day): a new dimension for the 
Group
Capgemini has had the same goal since 1967: helping businesses 
to be more efficient, innovative and agile through technology. 
Since its foundation, Capgemini has been known for its boldness, 
and its desire to build, develop and help its employees grow, to 
best serve its clients.
On April 4, 2012, as he had already implied two years previously 
on the renewal of his term of office, Mr. Serge Kampf informed 
Directors that “after having enjoyed the benefits of separation for 
10 years” he had decided to place this office back in the hands of 
the Board of Directors. He recommended a return at this time to 
the “standard” method of governance (that of a company in which 
the duties of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are exercised 
by the same individual) and the appointment as Chairman and 
Chief Executive Officer of the current Chief Executive Officer, 
Mr. Paul Hermelin, who had widely demonstrated, throughout a 
“probationary period” of a rather exceptional length, his ability 
to hold this role.

CorPor ATe GovernAnCe
Company management and administration
36
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT2At its meeting of April 4, 2012, the Board followed these 
recommendations and solemnly conferred on Mr. Serge Kampf the 
title of “Honorary Chairman” and function of Vice-Chairman, which 
he retained until his death on March 15, 2016. At the Shareholders’ 
Meeting of May 24, 2012, Mr. Serge Kampf passed the torch to Mr. 
Paul Hermelin, who became Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 
of Capgemini. “The Group is assured to continue its great story”, 
emphasized its founder at this time. The Shareholders’ Meeting 
gave a standing ovation in honor of Mr. Serge Kampf’s immense 
contribution to the development and reputation of the Company. 
Since the appointment of Mr. Paul Hermelin as Chief Executive 
Officer in 2002 and then as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 
in 2012, and the return to growth in 2004, the Group has set a 
course for new horizons. Firstly geographic, with expansion in India, 
the keystone of the Group’s industrialization process. Two major 
milestones were reached with the acquisition of Kanbay in 2007 
followed by IGATE in 2015, both US Financial Services specialists 
with a strong presence in India. The Group also expanded in Brazil, 
taking control of CPM Braxis in 2010, a leading Brazilian player. 
These new horizons are also technological. The Group launched 
new offerings integrating major changes such as cloud computing, 
digital and big data and meeting cyber security challenges.
In 2018, the Group remodeled its organization in line with the new 
ambitions set by the Board of Directors and Group Management: the 
maturity achieved by all the business lines now enables the Group 
to be organized around the client relationship. This organization enables Capgemini to better draw on the full range of its expertise 
and develops synergies between businesses, offerings and the 
geographical areas where the Group serves its clients.
Following the acquisition in April 2020 of Altran, a global leader 
in engineering and R&D services, Capgemini and Altran formed 
a global digital transformation leader for industrial and tech 
companies, ready to deploy the full promise of Intelligent Industry. 
This new group enjoys a unique position for bringing the power of 
new technologies and data to leading industrial and technology 
players across the globe.
It was in this dynamic context that the Board of Directors’ meeting 
of September 16, 2019 chose Mr. Aiman Ezzat, Chief Operating 
Officer, to succeed Mr. Paul Hermelin as Chief Executive Officer 
at the end of the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 20, 2020. This 
decision was taken after a management succession internal 
process launched in 2017. A governance structure separating the 
duties of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, under which Mr. 
Paul Hermelin remained Chairman of the Board and Mr. Aiman 
Ezzat became Chief Executive Officer of the Company, as the sole 
Executive Corporate Officer, was therefore implemented by the 
Board of Directors following the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 20, 
2020. With this new governance structure, revised in May 2022, 
Capgemini is writing the next Chapter in its history with the passion 
and collective energy that characterize the Group, and continue 
making Capgemini a global and responsible leader in its sector.
212  Governance structure
BALA nCed Govern AnCe, TAIL ored  To CAPG eMI nI’s sPeCIFIC re QuIreM enTs
The Company’s Board of Directors seeks to implement a balanced 
governance structure tailored to Capgemini and able to adapt to 
the circumstances and challenges specific to the Group, as well 
as changes in best practices in this area. It chooses between two 
general management approaches: combining or separating the 
duties of Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer.
Current governance structure
The Company’s current governance structure separates the duties of 
Chairman of the Board of Directors, exercised by Mr. Paul Hermelin, 
and Chief Executive Officer, exercised by Mr. Aiman Ezzat.
It was in the context of Mr. Hermelin’s managerial succession 
prepared since 2017, that the Board of Directors of May 20, 2020 
unanimously decided, at the recommendation of the Ethics & 
Governance Committee, to separate the duties of Chairman and 
Chief Executive Officer with immediate effect. During this meeting, 
Mr. Paul Hermelin, the current Chairman and Chief Executive 
Officer, was confirmed as Chairman of the Board of Directors for the 
remainder of his term of office as Director, and Mr. Aiman Ezzat was 
appointed Chief Executive Officer for his term of office as Director.The Board of Directors’ meeting of May 19, 2022 decided to continue 
this separated governance structure following the renewal of 
Mr. Paul Hermelin’s term of office as Director for a period of four 
years by the Shareholders’ Meeting. The members of the Board 
of Directors also reappointed Mr. Hermelin as Chairman of the 
Board of Directors.
The Board of Directors considers the separation of the duties of 
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer to be the most appropriate 
governance model for the Company following the successful two -year 
management hand -over phase. It wishes the Company to continue 
to benefit from Mr. Paul Hermelin’s expertise and experience and his 
in-depth knowledge of the Group. The extensive duties previously 
entrusted to the Chairman of the Board of Directors during the 
management hand -over phase came to an end in May 2022 at the 
end of the Shareholders’ Meeting (see the Section below, Role and 
duties of the Chairman of the Board of Directors).

CorPor ATe GovernAnCe
Company management and administration
37
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI2In addition, the Board of Directors also decided to retain the 
position of Lead Independent Director for as long as the duties of 
the Chairman of the Board are assumed by a director who is not 
independent as defined by the AFEP-MEDEF Code to which the 
Company adheres, as is currently the case. Mr. Frédéric Oudéa was 
confirmed in his duties as Lead Independent Director by the Board 
of Directors’ meeting of May 19, 2022 following the renewal of his 
term of office as a Director for a period of four years (see below 
for more information on his role and duties).
Executive Corporate Officer succession procedure
The Ethics & Governance Committee is responsible for preparing 
the work and deliberations of the Board of Directors regarding 
the appointment by the Board of Executive Corporate Officers.
To prepare Executive Corporate Officer transition, the Committee 
draws up and updates a succession plan: Chairman, Chairman and 
Chief Executive Officer or Chief Executive Officer, Chief Operating 
Officers. It examines the Group’s “talent pool” for individuals capable 
of becoming Executive Corporate Officers and particularly members 
of the Group Executive Committee. As such, it is informed of the 
annual performance of these individuals and any developments 
concerning them.
The Chairman of the Board of Directors participates in the work 
of the Ethics & Governance Committee on these issues, other than 
those that directly concern him.
In 2023, the Ethics & Governance Committee performed its annual 
review of the procedures implemented by Group Management 
to manage succession plans for Executive Management (Group 
Executive Board and the Group Executive Committee) to ensure 
talent able to assume the highest operational and functional 
responsibilities in the Group has been identified, while remaining 
open to the addition of new talent. The Committee also reviewed 
the process implemented by Group Management to identify and 
prepare potential internal candidates for the Chief Executive 
Officer succession when the day comes.
In addition, the Board of Directors implemented a succession plan 
enabling the immediate appointment of an interim successor in 
the event of the death or sudden incapacity of the Chairman of 
the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer. The aim of 
this plan is to ensure business continuity pending the appointment 
of a future successor by the Board of Directors. This plan was 
approved by the Board of Directors’ meeting of March 18, 2021 
at the recommendation of the Ethics & Governance Committee, 
which also reexamines the plan annually.
Powers of the Chief Executive Officer
Since May 20, 2020, Mr. Aiman Ezzat carries out the duties of Chief 
Executive Officer of the Company.
In accordance with Article 15 -4 of the Company’s bylaws, the 
Chief Executive Officer has the most extensive powers to act in 
all circumstances in the name of the Company. He exercises these 
powers within the limit of the corporate purpose and subject to 
the powers expressly entrusted by law to Shareholders’ Meetings 
and the Board of Directors. He represents the Company in its 
dealings with third parties.Limits on the powers of the Chief Executive Officer
The Charter stipulates that the Chief Executive Officer must seek 
and obtain prior approval from the Board of Directors for any 
decision which is of major strategic importance or which is liable to 
have a material impact, either directly or indirectly, on the financial 
position or commitments of the Company or those of one or more 
of its principal subsidiaries. This applies in particular to:
 —  the draft annual budget prepared in accordance with the 
three -year plan; 
 —  the approval of the annual investment and divestment 
budget; 
 —  the conclusion of material strategic alliances; 
 —  acquisitions or disposals of assets or investments not 
recorded in the annual investment budget, individually 
worth more than €100  million, or for smaller investments, 
resulting in the €300 million cumulative annual ceiling being 
exceeded; 
 —  financial transactions with a material impact on the 
Company financial statements or the consolidated financial 
statements of the Group and particularly issues of securities 
granting access to the Company’s share capital or market 
debt instruments; 
 —  the grant to employees of incentive instruments granting 
access to the Company’s share capital and particularly 
performance shares; 
 —  material internal reorganization transactions; 
 —  material changes to the scope or range of businesses; 
 —  increases or decreases in the share capital of a direct 
subsidiary of Capgemini, concerning an amount in excess of 
€100 million; 
 —  specific authorizations concerning the granting of pledges, 
security and guarantees, other than the delegation of 
authority granted annually to him up to the maximum 
amount set by the Board of Directors.
The limits on the powers of the Chief Executive Officer also apply, 
where applicable, to the Chief Operating Officers.
Role and duties of the Chairman of the Board of 
Directors
Since May 20, 2020, Mr. Paul Hermelin carries out the duties of 
Chairman of the Board of Directors. Following the renewal of his term 
of office as Director for a period of four years by the Shareholders’ 
Meeting of May 19, 2022, the Board of Directors decided, at the 
end of the Shareholders’ Meeting, to reappoint Mr. Paul Hermelin 
as non -executive Chairman of the Board of Directors for his term 
of office. Given the end of the management hand -over phase at 
this date, the Board of Directors decided to end the extended 
duties of the Chairman of the Board of Directors and return to a 
“standard” Chairman role.
In accordance with Article 14.2 of the Company’s bylaws and the 
Board of Directors’ Charter, the Chairman of the Board of Directors 
chairs meetings of the Board of Directors. He prepares, organizes 
and leads the work of the Board of Directors and sets the agenda 
of meetings. He oversees the proper operation of the Company’s 
bodies and the correct implementation of Board decisions. He 
ensures that Directors are able to carry out their duties and have 
all information necessary for this purpose.
He is regularly informed by the Chief Executive Officer of major 
events involving the Group and may request him to provide any 
specific information to advise the Board and its Committees.

CorPor ATe GovernAnCe
Company management and administration
38
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT2The Chairman of the Board of Directors is the only person authorized 
to speak on behalf of the Board, with the exception of any specific 
assignment entrusted to the Lead Independent Director pursuant 
to the dialogue with shareholders provided for in the Board of 
Directors’ Charter.
The Chairman of the Board of Directors reports on the work of 
the Board of Directors to Shareholders’ Meetings which he chairs.
The Chairman of the Board of Directors chairs and leads the 
Strategy & CSR Committee.
In all his assignments other than those conferred by law, the 
Chairman of the Board of Directors acts in close conjunction with 
the Chief Executive Officer, who has responsibility for the general 
and operational management of the Company. In this context, the 
Chairman of the Board of Directors may represent the Group, notably 
with bodies, institutions and public authorities. The Chairman of 
the Board of Directors shall devote his best efforts to promoting 
the Group’s values, culture and reputation.
Lead Independent Director
As part of the constant drive to improve governance within the 
Company, the position of Lead Independent Director was created 
in May 2014.
The Board of Directors’ Charter states that when the duties of 
Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer are 
exercised by the same person, the Board of Directors appoints a 
Lead Independent Director. In the case of separation of the duties of 
Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer, the 
Board of Directors may also choose to appoint a Lead Independent 
Director. This appointment is essential when the Chairman of the 
Board of Directors is not an Independent Director as defined by 
the AFEP-MEDEF Code, as is currently the case.
The duties of the Lead Independent Director are entrusted by the 
Board to the Chairman of the Ethics & Governance Committee, 
elected by the Board of Directors from among its members classified 
as independent. The duties of the Lead Independent Director and 
Chairman of the Ethics & Governance Committee may be revoked 
at any time by the Board of Directors.
As for any other Director, the Lead Independent Director may be a 
member of one or more specialized board committees in addition 
to the Ethics & Governance Committee that he chairs. He may also 
attend the meetings of specialized board committees of which he 
is not a member.
During the last Board assessments, the Directors expressed their full 
satisfaction with the creation of the position of Lead Independent 
Director, the role and activities enabling the balance desired by 
the Board to be achieved, in line with best governance practices.
Since May 20, 2021, the duties of Lead Independent Director have 
been performed by Mr. Frédéric Oudéa, Independent Director.  In 2022, the Board of Directors reappointed Mr. Frédéric Oudéa 
as Lead Independent Director at the end of the Shareholders’ 
Meeting of May 19, 2022 which approved the renewal of his term 
of office as Director for a period of fours years.
duties of the Lead Independent d irector
In accordance with the Board of Directors’ Charter and the decisions 
of the Board of Directors, the Lead Independent Director has the 
following duties:
 —  he is consulted by the Chairman of the Board of Directors 
on the proposed Board meeting schedule presented for 
the approval of the Board and on the draft agenda for each 
meeting of the Board of Directors; 
 —  he can propose to the Chairman the inclusion of items on the 
agenda of Board of Directors’ meetings at his own initiative 
or at the request of one or more Board members; 
 —  he can bring together Board members in the absence 
of Executive Corporate Officers in so -called “executive 
sessions”, at his own initiative or at the request of one or 
more Board members, to discuss a specific agenda; he chairs 
any such sessions; 
 —  he leads the assessment of the composition and performance 
of the Board of Directors and its specialized committees; 
 —  he steers the search for and selection of new Directors; 
 —  he chairs meetings of the Board of Directors convened 
to assess the performance and/or compensation of the 
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer or the Chairman where 
these duties are separated; 
 —  he holds regular discussions with the other Directors to 
ensure they have the means necessary to perform their 
duties in a satisfactory manner and in particular that they 
receive sufficient information prior to the Board meetings; 
 —  he conducts specific reviews to verify the absence of conflicts 
of interest within the Board of Directors; 
 —  he may be called on, at the request of the Chairman, to 
communicate with Company shareholders on governance 
and Executive Corporate Officer compensation issues and 
informs the Chairman and the members of the Board of 
Directors of any contacts he may have in this respect; 
 —  he reports on his actions to the Annual Shareholders’ 
Meeting.
The Lead Independent Director is assisted by the Board Secretary 
in the administrative tasks relating to his duties.
The report on his work in 2023 is presented in Section 2.2.2 (Activities 
of the Board of Directors in 2023).
Accordingly, the Group’s governance enjoys an active, diligent and independent Board of d irectors with a collective 
approach to its organization and the vigilant authority of a Lead Independent Director with specific powers and duties.

CorPor ATe GovernAnCe
Company management and administration
39
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI2213  Composition of the Board of Directors
The Board of Directors seeks to implement a balanced governance structure tailored to Capgemini and able to adapt  
to the circumstances and challenges specific to the Group. True to its history and the Group’s values, its action seeks to achieve  
the goal of sustainable and responsible growth, which has defined Capgemini for over 50 years. PAUL HERMELIN
Chairman of the Board of DirectorsFRÉDÉRIC OUDÉA 
Lead Independent Director & Chairman  
of the Ethics & Governance Committee“ THE CAPGEMINI BOARD 
OF DIRECTORS 
POSSESSES A WIDE 
RANGE OF EXPERTISE, 
ADAPTED TO THE 
CURRENT AND FUTURE 
CHALLENGES FACING  
THE GROUP.”
13+2
Board of Directors1
5 years
Average length of office2
Directors representing employees1
Director representing employee shareholders83%
Independent Directors258 years
Average age40%
InternationalizationW: 42%  M: 58%
Gender Balance3   AN INDEPENDENT AND BALANCED BOARD OF DIRECTORS   
NB: Information at December 31, 2023 . 1. 13 directors were elected by shareholders; the two directors r epresenting employees were appointed in accordance 
with the employee representation system. 2. The directors representing employees and employee shareholders  are not taken into account in calculating the 
independence rate, in accordance with the provisions of the AFE P-MEDEF Code. 3. The directors representing employees and employee shareholders  are not 
taken into account in calculating this percentage, in accordance with the provisions of the French Commercial Code.
At December 31, 2023, the Capgemini SE Board of Directors has 
15 members, including 13 members elected by Shareholders’ Meeting 
and two members appointed in accordance with the employee 
representation system. 83% of its members are independent, 
40% have international profiles and 42% are women. Directors are appointed for a period of four years. Directors are appointed by 
the Shareholders’ Meetings, or in the case of employee Directors, 
in accordance with the Company’s bylaws.
Further information on the provisions of the bylaws governing the 
Board of Directors is presented in Section 8.1.17.
Composition of the Board – a range of profiles and experience
Board of d irectors composition policy and objectives
The Board of Directors regularly assesses its composition and the 
various areas of expertise and experience contributed by each of 
its members. It also regularly identifies the direction to be taken 
to ensure the best possible balance with regards to international 
development and the diversity of the Group’s employees, changes 
in its shareholding base, the various challenges facing Capgemini, 
including sustainability issues, as well as the Group’s medium -term 
strategic direction. It ensures that the Board retains a range of 
experience, expertise and nationalities and respects gender 
balance, while ensuring the commitment of all Directors to the 
Group’s fundamental values. To this end, the work of the Ethics & 
Governance Committee, chaired by the Lead Independent Director, 
is invaluable.During its meeting on February 14, 2022 and at the recommendation 
of the Ethics & Governance Committee, the Board of Directors 
decided to renew the following objectives for its composition for 
the period 2022 -2026:
(i)  international diversification to reflect changes in Capgemini’s 
geographic spread and businesses; 
(ii)  diversity of profiles and expertise; 
(iii)  staggered renewal of terms of office; and
(iv)  maintenance of a measured number of Directors enabling 
coherence and collective decision -making.

CorPor ATe GovernAnCe
Company management and administration
40
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT2Implementation in 2023 of the 2022 -2026 objectives and results
The following table summarizes the implementation in 2023 of the 
various objectives regarding the Board of Directors’ composition. 
These objectives do not include Directors representing employees and Directors representing employee shareholders, who are 
appointed in accordance with specific legal provisions.
objective Implementation and results in 2023
International diversification to 
reflect changes in the Group’s 
geographical spread and 
businessesThe appointment of Ms. Megan Clarken, a New Zealand citizen and Ms. Ulrica Fearn, a Swedish 
citizen, as Director by the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 16, 2023, enabled the further international 
diversification of the Board’s composition.
At December 31, 2023, 40% of Directors have an international profile.
Diversity of profiles and 
expertiseThe appointment of Ms. Megan Clarken and Ms. Ulrica Fearn enriched the diversity of profiles on the 
Board and enabled it to benefit from their solid experience.
Ms. Megan Clarken is Chief Executive Officer of a global technology company. She has acquired throughout 
her career solid expertise in technology, data and digital transformation as well as experience in the 
media and retail sectors. She brings to the Board her inclusion and diversity expertise, as well as her 
knowledge of the US and Asia Pacific markets.
Ms. Ulrica Fearn has acquired throughout her career strong financial expertise from multiple senior 
positions in leading global companies in the energy, telecommunications and Consumer Goods & Retail 
sectors, all of which are industries leveraging technology as part of their sustainable transformation 
journey. She is currently Chief Financial Officer of Carlsberg.
Staggered renewal of terms of 
officeTerms of office continued to be renewed on a staggered basis in 2023, with the appointment of two 
new Directors, the non -renewal of the term of office of Ms. Xiaoqun Clever and Ms. Tanja Rueckert’s 
wish to stand down from the Board of Directors at the end of the 2023 Shareholders’ Meeting.
Maintenance of a measured 
number of Directors enabling 
coherence and collective 
decision -makingIn 2023, the number of Directors was maintained at 15. The Board considers that a number of 
14/15 Directors enables coherent and collective decision -making.
   RESULTS OF THE APPLICATION OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ DIVERSITY POLICY IN 2023   
TENURE DIVERSITY* NATIONALITY7 years
and more4 56 169 1 1 1 1 1 9United
Kingdomwomen3 to 6 years
Spain
Germany
New  
Zealandmen0 to 2 years
Canada
Sweden
France
* Scope covers all members of the Board (whereas percentage of women on the Board – currently 42% – excludes Directors representing employees and 
employee shareholders as per French law).

CorPor ATe GovernAnCe
Company management and administration
41
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI2Selection
process05
Onboarding
of the new Director
04
Board decision and
Shareholders’ meeting
approval
03
Candidate interviews and
issuing of a recommendation
to the Board of Directors02
Search and selection
of new Directors01
Formalization and ranking
of the selection criteria
for potential candidates   DIRECTOR SELECTION PROCESS   
When one or more directorships become vacant, or more broadly 
when the Board of Directors wishes to expand or modify its 
composition, the Ethics & Governance Committee documents and 
ranks the selection criteria for potential candidates, taking account 
of the desired balance and diversity of the Board’s composition, 
as well as the Group’s strategic challenges and the experience 
and expertise present on the Board, including in the sustainability 
field. The Committee takes into account the diversity policy and 
the 2022 -2026 objectives defined by the Board of Directors, as 
presented above.
Based on these criteria, the Committee Chairman steers the search 
for and selection of new Directors, where appropriate with the 
assistance of an external consultant, and conducts the necessary 
verifications.The members of the Ethics & Governance Committee then interview 
the candidates and issue a recommendation to the Board of 
Directors. The Chairman of the Board of Directors and the Chief 
Executive Officer are involved in the selection process.
In preparation of the 2023 Shareholders’ Meeting, the Ethics & 
Governance Committee focused on enriching the diversity of 
its profiles, particularly in terms of international diversification, 
extending its industry and geographic knowledge, deepening its 
expertise, particularly in technology, data and digital transformation 
and ensuring it retains sufficient financial expertise.
A specific selection process exists for Directors representing 
employees and Directors representing employee shareholders, 
in accordance with prevailing regulations. For more detailed 
information, please refer to Section 8.1.17.

CorPor ATe GovernAnCe
Company management and administration
42
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT2experience & expertise represented
The change in the composition of the Board of Directors in 
recent years, has enabled the replacement of a large number of 
its members, increasing the number of independent and female 
Directors and reducing the average age. The Board has also 
included a representative of employee shareholders since 2012 
and two employee representatives since September 2016, further 
contributing to the range of experience and viewpoints.The Board comprises individuals from diverse and complementary 
professional and cultural backgrounds, true to the Group’s history 
and values. This enables it to perform its duties collectively and 
in an open manner.
A GOOD MATCH BETWEEN DIRECTORS  
AND THE GROUP’S STRATEGIC FOCUS
In accordance with its diversity policy, the Board of Directors ensures the balance and plurality of expertise on the Board  
with regard to the challenges facing the Group. It maintains a range of experience and nationalities and respects gender  
balance, while ensuring the commitment of all directors to the Group’s fundamental values.
Operating experience
•  Executive and operational 
positions in leading groups
The Board of Directors therefore decided to adopt the following objectives for its composition for the period 2022-2026: 01. International diversification
to reflect changes in Capgemini’s geographical spread and businesses. 02. Diversification of profiles and expertise. 03. Staggered renewal of terms of office. 
04. Maintenance of a measured number of directors, enabling coherence and collective decision-making.Variety of origins
•  Private sector
•  Public sector
•  Capgemini employeesDiverse expertise
•  Data, Digital, Cloud
•  Services
•  Industry
•  Strategy & understanding 
of the Technology industry
•  Human Resources 
& Talent Management
•  Finance, Audit & Risk
•  CSR, Ethics & Compliance
•  Governance & 
Compensation
•  International experience

CorPor ATe GovernAnCe
Company management and administration
43
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI2The experience and expertise brought by each Director sitting on the Board of Directors at December 31, 2023 (excluding the Chief 
Executive Officer) may be summarized as follows.
Paul Hermelin
Chairman of the Board
Frédéric Oudéa
Lead Independent 
Director
Megan Clarken
Director
Ulrica Fearn
Director
Maria Ferraro
Director
Pierre Goulaieff
Director representing 
employees
Siân Herbert-Jones
Director
Hervé Jeannin
Director representing 
employees
Belen Moscoso  
del Prado
Director
Xavier Musca
Director
Patrick Pouyanné
Director
Olivier Roussat
Director
Kurt Sievers
Director
Lucia Sinapi-Thomas
Director representing  
employee shareholders
Rate by expertiseManagement position (Executive Committee)Human resources & Talent management Finance, Audit & RisksCSR*, Ethics  & ComplianceGovernance & CompensationInternational experience Data, Digital & Cloud Services Industry Audit & Risk Committee Ethics & Governance CommitteeCompensation CommitteeStrategy & CSRCommitteeStrategy and understanding of technology sector   Experience and expertise of Directors (excluding the CEO)  
  General experience and expertise    Expertise   Member of    specialized board   
committees
79% 79% 79% 50% 100% 86% 79% 57% 86% 50%
* Including expertise on climate change  Committee member     Committee Chairman
The Board of Directors considers that Directors carrying out or 
having carried out the duties of Chief Executive Officer or Chief 
Operating Officer of an international group listed on the stock 
market bring to the Board all the general expertise listed above 
(Strategy; Human Resources and Talent Management; Finance, 
Audit and Risks, CSR, Ethics and Compliance; Governance and 
Compensation). This is the case for Ms. Clarken and Messrs. Hermelin, 
Oudéa, Musca, Pouyanné, Roussat and Sievers.
In addition, among the Directors demonstrating CSR expertise, 
the Board of Directors considers that Ms. Clarken, Ms. Ferraro and 
Ms. Moscoso del Prado as well as Messrs. Hermelin, Oudéa, Musca, 
Pouyanné, Roussat and Sievers bring specific expertise relating to 
climate change issues.
A detailed individual presentation of Directors at December 31, 
2023, setting out their career path and the offices and duties they 
hold and linking to the expertise each of them bring to the Board, is 
presented in Section 2.1.4 of this Universal Registration Document.The Board also considers that Mr. Aiman Ezzat, Director and Chief 
Executive Officer of Capgemini SE, brings all the above experience 
and expertise to the Board of Directors.
Changes in the composition of the Board in 2023
Shareholders’ Meeting of May 16, 2023
The Board of Directors of Capgemini SE, meeting on March 16, 
2023 under the chairmanship of Mr. Paul Hermelin, Chairman of the 
Board of Directors, and on the report of the Ethics & Governance 
Committee, deliberated on changes in the composition of the 
Board of Directors at the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 16, 2023.
Ms. Xiaoqun Clever expressed her wish not to renew her term of 
office for personal reasons. Ms. Tanja Rueckert decided to stand 
down from the Board of Directors following a change in her 
responsibilities within Bosch, effective following the end of the 
Shareholders’ Meeting of May 16, 2023.

CorPor ATe GovernAnCe
Company management and administration
44
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT2In line with the Board of Directors’ ambition to deepen its industry 
expertise and enrich the diversity of its profiles, particularly in terms 
of its international diversification, the Shareholders’ Meeting of 
(1) The Directors representing employees and employee shareholders are not taken into account in calculating this percentage, in accordance with the provisions of the 
AFEP-MEDEF Code and the French Commercial Code.May 16, 2023 appointed Ms. Megan Clarken and Ms. Ulrica Fearn 
as Independent Directors for a term of four years.
Changes in the composition of the Board of d irectors and its specialized committees in 2023
 departures Appointments renewals
Board of d irectors Xiaoqun Clever 
Director
(AGM 05/16/2023)
Tanja rueckert  
Director
(AGM 05/16/2023)Megan Clarken 
Director
(AGM 05/16/2023)
ulrica Fearn  
Director
(AGM 05/16/2023)N/A
Audit & r isk Committee Xiaoqun Clever
(05/16/2023)ulrica Fearn
(05/16/2023)N/A
strategy & C sr Committee Tanja rueckert
(05/16/2023)Megan Clarken
(05/16/2023)N/A
At December 31, 2023, the Board of Directors therefore comprised 
15 Directors, with 83% of Independent Directors and 42% of 
female Directors (the Directors representing employees and 
employee shareholders are not taken into account in calculating 
these percentages).
Upcoming changes in the composition of the Board
At its meeting on February 13, 2024, the Board of Directors decided 
to propose the renewal of Mr. Aiman Ezzat’s term of office as 
director for a period of four years, and expressed its intention to 
confirm Mr. Ezzat in his role as Chief Executive Officer after the 
Shareholders’ Meeting.
The Board of Directors unanimously agreed with this proposal, based 
on the recommendation of the Ethics & Governance Committee, 
thereby reaffirming its support for Mr. Ezzat as he continues to 
implement the Group’s strategy.
The Board of Directors will also propose the renewal of the terms of 
office of Ms. Siân Herbert-Jones and Ms. Belen Moscoso del Prado, 
for a period of four years. Ms. Herbert-Jones and Ms. Moscoso del 
Prado are considered to be independent pursuant to the criteria 
of the AFEP-MEDEF Code to which the Company refers.
Assuming the adoption of these resolutions by the Shareholders’ 
Meeting of May 16, 2024, the composition of the Board of Directors 
would therefore count 15 Directors, including two Directors 
representing employees and one director representing employee 
shareholders. 83% of its members will be independent (1), 40% will 
have international profiles and 42% will be women (1).
Independence of the Board of Directors
Independence criteria
In accordance with the definition of independence adopted by the 
AFEP-MEDEF Code, a director is independent when he/she has no 
relationship with the Company, the Group or its Management, that 
is likely to impair his/her judgment.
The following criteria are examined, initially by the Ethics & Governance 
Committee and then by the Board, to determine whether a director 
is independent (Article 10.5 of the AFEP-MEDEF Code):
 —  is not and has not been during the course of the previous five 
years:
 –  an employee or Executive Corporate Officer of the 
Company, –  an employee or Executive Corporate Officer or director 
of a company that the Company consolidates,
 –  an employee or Executive Corporate Officer or director 
of the Company’s parent company or a company that this 
parent company consolidates; 
 —  is not an Executive Corporate Officer of a company in which 
the Company holds directly or indirectly a directorship or 
in which an employee designated as such or an Executive 
Corporate Officer of the Company (currently or within the 
last 5 years) holds a directorship; 
 —  is not a customer, supplier, corporate bank, financing bank 
or advisor:
 –  material for the Company or its Group,
 –  or for which the Company or its Group represents a 
material share of activity; 
 —  does not have close family ties with a corporate officer; 
 —  has not been the statutory auditor of the Company in the last 
5 years; 
 —  has not been a director of the Company for more than twelve 
years (the status of Independent Director is lost on the date 
of the twelve -year anniversary).
ratio and Calculation rules
In companies with widely -held share capital, such as Capgemini SE, 
the AFEP-MEDEF Code recommends that at least one -half of Board 
members should be independent.
Directors representing employee shareholders and Directors 
representing employees are not included when calculating the 
Board’s independence, in accordance with the provisions of the 
AFEP-MEDEF Code. Accordingly, the percentage of independent 
Directors on the Capgemini SE Board of Directors at the date 
of this Universal Registration Document is calculated based on 
12 members and not the full 15 members of the Board.
review of director independence by the Board of 
directors
Based on the report of the Ethics & Governance Committee, the 
Board of Directors examined the personal situation of each of the 
members of the Board of Directors with regard to the AFEP-MEDEF 
Code independence criteria set -out above during its meeting of 
February 13, 2024.

CorPor ATe GovernAnCe
Company management and administration
45
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI2The following table summarizes the classification adopted for each director following this review, for the 12 Directors included in the 
calculation of the Board’s independence ratio in accordance with the AFEP-MEDEF Code.
 Is not and has 
not been within 
the last 5 years, 
an employee 
or e xecutive 
Corporate 
Officerno cross- 
director-
shipsno material 
business 
relationshipsno  
family 
tieshas not been 
the statutory 
auditor of 
the Company 
in the last 
5 yearshas not  
been a 
director for 
more than 
12 years Classification
Paul Hermelin x √ √ √ √ x Not independent
Aiman Ezzat x √ √ √ √ √ Not independent
Megan Clarken √ √ √ √ √ √ Independent
Ulrica Fearn √ √ √ √ √ √ Independent
Maria Ferraro √ √ √ √ √ √ Independent
Siân Herbert-Jones √ √ √ √ √ √ Independent
Belen Moscoso del Prado √ √ √ √ √ √ Independent
Xavier Musca √ √ √ √ √ √ Independent
Frédéric Oudéa √ √ √ √ √ √ Independent
Patrick Pouyanné √ √ √ √ √ √ Independent
Olivier Roussat √ √ √ √ √ √ Independent
Kurt Sievers √ √ √ √ √ √ Independent
TOTAL 10 INDEPENDENT DIRECTORS (83%)
x Independence criteria not met.
√ Independence criteria met.
Based on the independence criteria set out above, the Board 
considered that 10 of its 12 members (excluding Directors 
representing employees and employee shareholders), i.e. 83%, 
could be considered independent:
Megan Clarken, Ulrica Fearn, Maria Ferraro, Siân Herbert-Jones, 
Belen Moscoso del Prado, Xavier Musca, Frédéric Oudéa, Patrick 
Pouyanné, Olivier Roussat and Kurt Sievers.
Specific review by the Board of Directors of the business 
relationship criteria between Capgemini group and its d irectors
During its annual review of the independence of Directors, the 
Board of Directors examined, in particular, any business relationships 
between Capgemini group and each director or company with 
which they are associated, in order to assess the materiality of 
these relationships.
This assessment was conducted with regard to both quantitative 
and qualitative criteria.
The quantitative assessment was based on a statement of business 
flows between Capgemini group and entities that are suppliers 
and/or clients of Capgemini and that have Directors in common 
with Capgemini SE.
This analysis is supplemented by a review of more qualitative 
and contextual items reflecting the situations examined, such as 
negotiation terms and conditions for the delivery of services, the 
organization of the relationship between stakeholders and the 
relevant Director’s position in the contracting company and the 
existence of a long -term relationship or a position of potential 
economic dependence.This review is one of the specific activities conducted by the Lead 
Independent Director as part of the procedure to assess the absence 
of conflict of interest (see below).
After assessing the above criteria and based on the work of the 
Ethics & Governance Committee, the Board of Directors concluded 
as follows:
 —  in 2023, Capgemini SE and its subsidiaries have, in the normal 
course of business, delivered services to and/or received 
services from companies in which certain of its independent 
Directors are executives or Directors; 
 —  to the extent that the services were contracted under normal 
conditions and that the corresponding revenues recognized 
by Capgemini and the relevant companies could not be 
considered material or to indicate a position of economic 
dependence, in the Board of Directors’ opinion these 
business relationships were not material for Capgemini group 
or the relevant companies and did not indicate a situation of 
economic dependence or exclusivity and were not likely to 
compromise the independence of the Directors concerned.
In addition to procedures performed prior to entering into service 
agreements, a specific review was performed of relations with 
Crédit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank (CACIB), as Mr. 
Xavier Musca is Chief Executive Officer of CACIB and Deputy Chief 
Executive Officer of Crédit Agricole SA.

CorPor ATe GovernAnCe
Company management and administration
46
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT2The Board of Directors noted that CACIB disclosed it had decreased 
its interest below the 10% share capital and voting rights threshold 
in the Company on June 9, 2022 and that CACIB acted as the 
structuring bank for the most recent Group employee share 
ownership transactions (including the latest share capital increase 
on December 19, 2023). Implementation of the leveraged and 
secure offers requires the financial institution structuring the offer 
to enter into on and off -market hedging transactions, by buying 
and/or selling shares, share purchase options and/or all other 
transactions throughout the duration of the transactions. In its 
threshold crossing disclosure, CACIB stated that it held 8.02% of 
the share capital and voting rights of the Company, including 6.99% 
in respect of derivatives and 0.87% in respect of guarantees (1).
In addition, it is noted that Capgemini SE owns 17.14% of Azqore, 
a subsidiary of CA Indosuez SA (a Crédit Agricole subsidiary) which 
operates a platform specializing in banking transactions for wealth 
management players.
(1) Following the repeal of the so -called “trading” exception due to the enactment into French law of the revised Transparency Directive 2013/50/EU by Order no. 2015 -1576 of 
December 3, 2015, service providers must include in their threshold crossing disclosures certain agreements or financial instruments deemed to have an economic effect 
similar to the ownership of shares, irrespective of whether they are settled in shares or cash (e.g. forward purchases with physical settlement).Furthermore, the Company was informed of the procedure 
implemented by the Crédit Agricole group to manage potential 
conflicts of interest. In this context, Mr. Xavier Musca does not 
participate in the decision -making process for any transactions 
involving Capgemini.
The Board of Directors considered that these business relations 
were not material from Capgemini’s point of view or that of the 
relevant companies and did not indicate a situation of economic 
dependence or exclusivity and were unlikely to call into question 
Mr. Xavier Musca’s independence.
Independence of the Board after the 2024 s hareholders’ 
Meeting
Assuming the renewal of the terms of office of Ms. Belen Moscoso 
del Prado, Ms. Siân Herbert-Jones and Mr. Aiman Ezzat, the 
percentage of independent Directors would remain unchanged 
at 83% (10 members out of 12).
overview of the independent status of the Board of d irectors
 Percentage of 
Independent 
directors* Classification of Board members**
At the date of the 2023 Universal 
Registration Document83% Megan Clarken, u lrica Fearn, Maria Ferraro, s iân h erbert-Jones, Belen 
Moscoso del Prado, Xavier Musca, Frédéric oudéa, Patrick Pouyanné, 
olivier r oussat and Kurt s ievers
Paul Hermelin and Aiman Ezzat
At the end of the Shareholders’ 
Meeting of May 16, 202483% Megan Clarken, u lrica Fearn, Maria Ferraro, s iân h erbert-Jones, Belen 
Moscoso del Prado, Xavier Musca, Frédéric oudéa, Patrick Pouyanné, 
olivier r oussat and Kurt s ievers
Paul Hermelin and Aiman Ezzat
* Directors representing employees and employee shareholders are not included in this percentage in accordance with the AFEP-MEDEF Code.
** In bold: members considered independent by the Board.
Information on regulated agreements with related parties
No agreements governed by Article L. 225 -38 of the French 
Commercial Code were authorized by the Board of Directors during 
the year ended December 31, 2023.
Internal Charter on regulated agreements
In accordance with Article L. 225 -39 of the French Commercial 
Code, the Board of Directors’ meeting of February 12, 2020 
approved an Internal Charter specifying the methodology used 
to (i) identify and classify agreements that should be governed 
by the regulated agreements procedure at Company level prior to 
their conclusion, renewal or termination, and (ii) regularly assess 
whether agreements on ordinary transactions concluded at arm’s 
length satisfy these requirements.
The Internal Charter and, particularly, the procedure for classifying 
agreements as ordinary transactions performed at arm’s length, is 
reviewed annually by the Board of Directors, based on a preliminary 
study by the Ethics & Governance Committee.
A report on the implementation of the Internal Charter was 
presented to the Ethics & Governance Committee during its 
meeting of December 1, 2023. After analyzing the criteria adopted 
to classify agreements as regulated agreements or ordinary 
agreements performed at arm’s length during the fiscal year, the 
Ethics & Governance Committee recommended that the Board 
of Directors not modify the agreement classification criteria in 
the Internal Charter.Absence of conflict of interest
Article 7.1 of the Capgemini SE Board of Directors’ Charter requires 
Directors to comply with recommendation no. 21 of the AFEP- 
MEDEF Code concerning the prevention of conflicts of interest:
“Although they are themselves shareholders, the Directors represent 
all the shareholders and are required to act in all circumstances in 
the Company’s interest. They are required to notify the Board of 
Directors of any one -off conflict of interest or potential conflict 
of interest and to refrain from participating in deliberations and 
voting on the related decision. Any director who has a permanent 
conflict of interest is required to resign from the Board.”
Furthermore, in light of the recommendations of the French 
Financial Markets Authority (AMF) and the Corporate Governance 
High Committee, the Board of Directors implemented an appraisal 
procedure to assess any conflicts of interest that may arise from 
business relations.
T o this end, a statement of business flows between Capgemini 
group and entities that are suppliers and/or clients of Capgemini 
group and that have Directors in common with Capgemini SE is 
prepared annually and communicated to the Lead Independent 
Director and Chairman of the Ethics & Governance Committee. A 
qualitative assessment of situations encountered is also conducted 
based on several criteria, as detailed in the Section “Independence 
of the Board of Directors” above. In addition, each year Directors 
are required to issue a statement to the Company regarding the 
existence or absence, to their knowledge, of any conflicts of interest.

CorPor ATe GovernAnCe
Company management and administration
47
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI2Based on this information, the Lead Independent Director confirmed 
the absence of any conflicts of interest.
These conflict of interest prevention measures supplement one of 
the general duties of the Ethics & Governance Committee which is 
to draw the attention of the Chairman and the Board of Directors 
to any potential situations of conflict of interest it has identified 
between a Director and the Company or its Group or between 
Directors. They also provide input for the Board of Directors’ work 
on the independence classification of Directors.
Loans and guarantees granted to d irectors and managers of 
the Company
None
Declarations concerning corporate officers
As far as the Company is aware, none of the current members of 
the Board of Directors:
 —  has been found guilty of fraud at any time during the last five 
years; 
 —  has been involved in any bankruptcy, receivership, liquidation 
or company placed in administration at any time during the 
last five years with the exception of Mr. Paul Hermelin, 
Chairman of The Bridge, a company placed in liquidation 
proceedings on October 9, 2019 by the Avignon Commercial 
Court and removed from the Companies Register in 
March  2022 and Ms.  Belen Moscoso del Prado, who was a 
director of the Spanish company Adveo International, which 
was removed from the Companies Register in June 2022 and 
one of whose subsidiaries has been placed in liquidation;  —  has been subject to any form of official public sanction and/
or criminal liability pronounced by a statutory or regulatory 
authority (including designated professional bodies); 
 —  has been disqualified by a court from acting as a member of 
the administrative, management or supervisory bodies of an 
issuer or from participating in the management or conduct of 
the affairs of any issuer at any time during the last five years.
As far as the Company is aware, there are no:
 —  conflicts of interest among the members of the Board of 
Directors between their duties towards Capgemini and their 
private interests and/or any other duties; 
 —  arrangements or agreements with the principal shareholders, 
customers or suppliers pursuant to which one of the 
members of the Board of Directors was selected; 
 —  restrictions accepted by the members of the Board of 
Directors on the sale of their investment in the share capital 
of Capgemini (other than the obligation under the bylaws 
that each director must hold at least 500 shares throughout 
their term of office, excluding Directors representing 
employees and employee shareholders, and the obligation 
for the Executive Corporate Officer to hold shares detailed 
in Section 2.3.2); 
 —  service contracts between the members of the Board of 
Directors and Capgemini or any of its subsidiaries that 
provide for the granting of benefits under such contract.
As far as the Company is aware, there are no family ties between 
members of the Board of Directors.

CorPor ATe GovernAnCe
Company management and administration
48
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT2214  Information on the members of the Board of Directors
(1) In accordance with the recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF Code, the total number of offices held by a Director in listed companies must not exceed five (including 
the one in Capgemini SE) or three for Executive Corporate Officers (Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Operating Officer, Chairman or 
members of the Management Board).Overview of the Board of Directors (at December 31, 2023)
 Independent 
directorAttendance 
rate  
(Board)Board  
CommitteesFirst  
appoint-  
mentexpiry of 
term of 
office  
share-
holders’ 
Meetingnumber  
of years  
on the  
Boardnumber of  
shares  
owned nationality Age Gendernumber of 
offices in 
listed com-
panies  (1) 
Paul h ermelin 
Chairman of the Board of DirectorsNo 100% Strategy & CSR (C) 2000 2026 23 206,188 French 71 M 1
Aiman e zzat 
Chief Executive Officer and DirectorNo 100% Strategy & CSR 2020 2024 3 113,269 French 62 M 2
Megan Clarken 
DirectorYes 60% Strategy & CSR 2023 2027 0 500 New Zealander 57 F 2
ulrica Fearn 
DirectorYes 60% Audit & Risk 2023 2027 0 500 Swedish 50 F 2
Maria Ferraro 
DirectorYes 100% Audit & Risk 2022 2026 1 500 Canadian 50 F 2
Pierre Goulaieff 
Director representing employeesNo 100% Compensation 2022 2024 1 322 French 57 M 1
siân h erbert-Jones 
DirectorYes 100% Audit & Risk  
Ethics &  
Governance2016 2024 7 1,000 British 63 F 2
hervé Jeannin 
Director representing employeesNo 100% Strategy & CSR 2020 2024 3 12 French 60 M 1
Belen Moscoso del Prado 
DirectorYes 88% Compensation 2020 2024 3 1,000 Spanish 50 F 1
Xavier Musca 
DirectorYes 100% Audit & Risk (C)  
Ethics &  
Governance2014 2026 9 1,000 French 63 M 2
Frédéric o udéa 
DirectorYes 100% Ethics &  
Governance (C)2018 2026 5 1,000 French 60 M 2
Patrick Pouyanné 
DirectorYes 100% Compensation (C) 
Ethics & Governance2017 2025 6 1,000 French 60 M 2
olivier r oussat 
DirectorYes 88% Strategy & CSR 2022 2026 1 500 French 59 M 2 (*)  
Kurt s ievers 
DirectorYes 75% Strategy & CSR 
Compensation2021 2025 2 1,000 German 54 M 2
Lucia s inapi-Thomas 
Director representing employee 
shareholdersNo 100% Compensation 2012 2024 11 27,227 French 59 F 3
(C): Committee Chairman.
(*) The offices held by Mr. Roussat in the Bouygues Group are recorded as a single office, in accordance with Article 20.2 of the AFEP-MEDEF Code.

CorPor ATe GovernAnCe
Company management and administration
49
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI2 Independent 
directorAttendance 
rate  
(Board)Board  
CommitteesFirst  
appoint-  
mentexpiry of 
term of 
office  
share-
holders’ 
Meetingnumber  
of years  
on the  
Boardnumber of  
shares  
owned nationality Age Gendernumber of 
offices in 
listed com-
panies  (1) 
Paul h ermelin 
Chairman of the Board of DirectorsNo 100% Strategy & CSR (C) 2000 2026 23 206,188 French 71 M 1
Aiman e zzat 
Chief Executive Officer and DirectorNo 100% Strategy & CSR 2020 2024 3 113,269 French 62 M 2
Megan Clarken 
DirectorYes 60% Strategy & CSR 2023 2027 0 500 New Zealander 57 F 2
ulrica Fearn 
DirectorYes 60% Audit & Risk 2023 2027 0 500 Swedish 50 F 2
Maria Ferraro 
DirectorYes 100% Audit & Risk 2022 2026 1 500 Canadian 50 F 2
Pierre Goulaieff 
Director representing employeesNo 100% Compensation 2022 2024 1 322 French 57 M 1
siân h erbert-Jones 
DirectorYes 100% Audit & Risk  
Ethics &  
Governance2016 2024 7 1,000 British 63 F 2
hervé Jeannin 
Director representing employeesNo 100% Strategy & CSR 2020 2024 3 12 French 60 M 1
Belen Moscoso del Prado 
DirectorYes 88% Compensation 2020 2024 3 1,000 Spanish 50 F 1
Xavier Musca 
DirectorYes 100% Audit & Risk (C)  
Ethics &  
Governance2014 2026 9 1,000 French 63 M 2
Frédéric o udéa 
DirectorYes 100% Ethics &  
Governance (C)2018 2026 5 1,000 French 60 M 2
Patrick Pouyanné 
DirectorYes 100% Compensation (C) 
Ethics & Governance2017 2025 6 1,000 French 60 M 2
olivier r oussat 
DirectorYes 88% Strategy & CSR 2022 2026 1 500 French 59 M 2 (*)  
Kurt s ievers 
DirectorYes 75% Strategy & CSR 
Compensation2021 2025 2 1,000 German 54 M 2
Lucia s inapi-Thomas 
Director representing employee 
shareholdersNo 100% Compensation 2012 2024 11 27,227 French 59 F 3
(C): Committee Chairman.
(*) The offices held by Mr. Roussat in the Bouygues Group are recorded as a single office, in accordance with Article 20.2 of the AFEP-MEDEF Code.

CorPor ATe GovernAnCe
Company management and administration
50
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT2Expiry of terms of office of Directors of the Company elected by Shareholders’ Meeting
name 2024 AGM 2025 AGM 2026 AGM 2027 AGM
Paul Hermelin, Chairman of the Board of Directors   √  
Aiman Ezzat, Chief Executive Officer √    
Megan Clarken (a)    √
Ulrica Fearn (a)    √
Maria Ferraro (a)   √  
Siân Herbert-Jones (a)  √    
Belen Moscoso del Prado (a)  √    
Xavier Musca (a) (b)   √  
Frédéric Oudéa (a)    √  
Patrick Pouyanné (a)   √   
Olivier Roussat (a)   √  
Kurt Sievers (a)   √   
Lucia Sinapi-Thomas (c)  √    
(a) Independent Director.
(b) Director no longer classified as an Independent Director on the renewal of his term of office (term of more than 12 years).
(c) Director representing employee shareholders.
The terms of office of Messrs. Pierre Goulaieff and Hervé Jeannin, 
Directors representing employees, will expire at the end of the 
Shareholders’ Meeting of May 16, 2024. Specific provisions of the bylaws apply to these renewals which are not subject to shareholder 
vote (see Section 8.1.17 for more information).

CorPor ATe GovernAnCe
Company management and administration
51
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI2Information on the members of the Board of Directors at December 31, 2023
Since May 16, 2023, the Capgemini Board of Directors has 15 members. 
The wide range of their experience and expertise contributes to 
the quality of discussions and the smooth operation of the Board, ensuring the best possible balance taking account of the Group’s 
situation and the different challenges facing Capgemini.
A detailed individual presentation of each Director is presented 
below.
date of birth:
April 30, 1952
nationality:
French
Business address:
Capgemini SE,  
11 rue de Tilsitt  
75017 Paris
First appointment:
2000
Expiry of term of office:
2026 (Ordinary 
Shareholders’ Meeting 
held to approve the 2025 
financial statements)
number of shares held  
at December 31, 2023:
206,188 PAUL HERMELIN
Chairman of the Board of d irectors
Chairman of the s trategy & C sr Committee
BIoGrAPhY – P roFessI onAL e XPerIenCe
Mr. Paul Hermelin is a graduate of École Polytechnique and École Nationale d’Administration. He spent the 
first fifteen years of his professional life in the French government, primarily in the Ministry of Finance. He 
held a number of positions in the Budget Office and on various ministry staffs, including that of Finance 
Minister, Jacques Delors. He was chief of staff to the Minister of Industry and Foreign Trade from 1991 to 1993.
Mr. Paul Hermelin joined the Capgemini group in May 1993, where he was first in charge of coordinating 
central functions. In May 1996, he was appointed member of the Management Board and Chief Executive 
Officer of Capgemini France. In May 2000, following the merger of Capgemini and Ernst & Young Consulting, 
he became Chief Operating Officer of the Group and Director. On January 1, 2002, he became Chief Executive 
Officer of the Capgemini group, followed by Chairman and Chief Executive Officer on May 24, 2012. Under 
his guidance and leadership, Capgemini has become a world leader in the transformation and digitization 
of companies, seeking to leverage technology to achieve inclusive and sustainable progress.
Following the separation of the duties of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer on May 20, 2020 as part of 
the Group Management succession, Mr. Paul Hermelin remained Chairman of the Capgemini SE Board of 
Directors.
Mr. Paul Hermelin is also Senior Advisor to the Eurazeo Group since February 2022.
Mr. Hermelin brings to the Board his expertise in corporate growth, transformation and digitization, his 
experience in innovation and technology and his in -depth knowledge of the Group which he led for 18 years.
Principal office:
Mr. Paul Hermelin has been Chairman of the Capgemini SE Board of Directors since May 20, 2020.
OFFICES HELD IN 2023 OR CURRENT OFFICES AT DECEMBER 31, 2023
Chairman of the Board of d irectors of:
 — CAPGEMINI SE* (since May 20, 2020)
senior Advisor of:
 —  EURAZEO* (since February 2022)
Chairman of:
 —  FRENCH TECH GRANDE PROVENCE
 —  AIX-EN-PROVENCE INTERNATIONAL MUSIC 
FESTIVALOther offices held in Capgemini group:
director of:
 —  CAPGEMINI INTERNATIONAL BV  
(since March 15, 2019)
 —  CAPGEMINI TECHNOLOGY SERVICES INDIA 
LIMITED (since August 11, 2017)
oTher o FFIC es he Ld dur InG The LA sT FIve Y eArs (oFFIC es e XPIred )
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of:
 —  CAPGEMINI SE* (until May 2020)
Chairman of:
 —  THE BRIDGE S.A.S. (until October 2019)
Offices held in Capgemini group:
Chairman of:
 —  CAPGEMINI SERVICE S.A.S.  
(until May 20, 2020)
 —  CAPGEMINI LATIN AMERICA S.A.S.  
(until May 20, 2020)Chairman of the Board of d irectors of:
 —  CAPGEMINI NORTH AMERICA, INC.  
(United States) (until May 20, 2020)
 —  CAPGEMINI AMERICA, INC. (United States)  
(until May 20, 2020)
Manager of:
 —  SCI PARIS ÉTOILE (until May 20, 2020)
Chief Executive Officer of:
 —  CAPGEMINI NORTH AMERICA, INC.  
(United States) (until May 20, 2020)
director of:
 —  CGS HOLDINGS LTD (United Kingdom)  
(until May 20, 2020)
Chairman of the s upervisory Board of:
 —  CAPGEMINI NV (Netherlands)  
(until November 27, 2020)
* Listed company.

CorPor ATe GovernAnCe
Company management and administration
52
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT2
date of birth:
October 30, 1966
nationality:
New Zealander
Business address:
Criteo S.A.,
32 rue Blanche 
75009 Paris
First appointment:
2023
Expiry of term of office: 
2027 (Ordinary 
Shareholders’ Meeting 
held to approve the 2026 
financial statements)
number of shares held  
at December 31, 2023:
500MEGAN CLARKEN
Independent d irector
Member of the Strategy & CSR Committee (since May 16, 2023)
BIoGrAPhY – P roFessI onAL e XPerIenCe
Ms. Megan Clarken is Chief Executive Officer of Criteo since November 2019.
Born in New Zealand, Ms. Megan Clarken held senior leadership positions for large publishers and online 
technology providers in Australia, before joining Nielsen in 2004. From 2004 to 2019, Ms. Clarken held 
numerous senior positions at Nielsen in both commercial and product leadership, including Chief Commercial 
Officer of Nielsen Global Media, President of Watch, Nielsen’s Media Measurement services, and President 
of Product leadership. Ms. Clarken’s previous roles at Nielsen include Managing Director of Media Client 
Services in Asia Pacific, Middle East and Africa and Managing Director of Nielsen’s digital business across 
the Asia Pacific region. Ms. Megan Clarken was also a champion of diversity & inclusion during her 15 years 
at Nielsen Global Media.
Ms. Megan Clarken was appointed Chief Executive Officer of Criteo S.A. effective November 25, 2019 and 
has served as a member of the Board of Directors of Criteo S.A. since August 2020.
Ms. Megan Clarken joined the Board of Directors of Capgemini SE on May 16, 2023 and was appointed a 
member of the Strategy & CSR Committee at the same date.
Throughout her career, Ms. Megan Clarken has acquired solid expertise in technology, data and digital 
transformation as well as experience in the media and retail sectors. She brings to the Board her inclusion 
and diversity expertise, as well as her knowledge of the US and Asia Pacific markets.
Principal office:
Chief Executive Officer of Criteo S.A.
OFFICES HELD IN 2023 OR CURRENT OFFICES AT DECEMBER 31, 2023
Chief Executive Officer of:
 —  CRITEO S.A.* (France) (since November 25, 2019)
director of:
 —  CAPGEMINI SE* (since May 2023)
 —  CRITEO S.A.* (France) (since August 2020)
oTher o FFIC es he Ld dur InG The LA sT FIve Y eArs (oFFIC es e XPIred )
N/A
* Listed company.

CorPor ATe GovernAnCe
Company management and administration
53
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI2
date of birth:
January 24, 1973
nationality:
Swedish
Business address:
Carlsberg A/S,
1 J.C. Jacobsens Gade 
1799 Copenhagen
Denmark
First appointment:
2023
Expiry of term of office:
2027 (Ordinary 
Shareholders’ Meeting 
held to approve the 2026 
financial statements)
number of shares held  
at December 31, 2023:
500ULRICA FEARN
Independent d irector
Member of the Audit & Risk Committee (since May 16, 2023)
BIoGrAPhY – P roFessI onAL e XPerIenCe
Ms. Ulrica Fearn is a Swedish citizen and holds a master’s degree in business and finance from the University 
of Halmstad, Sweden.
Ms. Ulrica Fearn is Chief Financial Officer of Carlsberg Group since January 1st , 2023. Before joining Carlsberg, 
she was Chief Financial Officer of Equinor, a leading energy company in Norway. Prior to Equinor, she was 
Director, Group Finance at the British telecommunications company, BT Group. She began her career at 
Diageo, where she spent almost 20 years in various senior finance and other management roles across 
Europe, APAC and the USA.
She joined the Board of Directors of Capgemini SE on May 16, 2023 and was appointed a member of the 
Audit & Risk Committee at the same date.
Ms. Ulrica Fearn brings to the Board her strong financial expertise from multiple senior positions in leading 
global companies in the energy, telecommunications and Consumer Goods & Retail sectors, all of which are 
industries leveraging technology as part of their sustainable transformation journey.
Principal office:
Member of the Executive Board and Chief Financial Officer of Carlsberg
OFFICES HELD IN 2023 OR CURRENT OFFICES AT DECEMBER 31, 2023 
director of:
 —  CAPGEMINI SE* (since May 16, 2023)
Member of the e xecutive Board of:
 —  CARLSBERG A/S* (Denmark) (since January 1, 2023)
oTher o FFIC es he Ld dur InG The LA sT FIve Y eArs (oFFIC es e XPIred )
N/A
* Listed company.

CorPor ATe GovernAnCe
Company management and administration
54
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT2
date of birth:
May 22, 1961
nationality:
French
Business address:
Capgemini SE,  
11 rue de Tilsitt  
75017 Paris
First appointment:
2020
Expiry of term of office:
2024 (Ordinary 
Shareholders’ Meeting 
held to approve the 2023 
financial statements)
number of shares held  
at December 31, 2023:
113,269AIMAN EZZAT
director
Chief Executive Officer
Member of the s trategy & C sr Committee
BIoGrAPhY – P roFessI onAL e XPerIenCe
Mr. Aiman Ezzat, born on May 22, 1961, holds a MSc (Master of Science) in chemical engineering from École 
Supérieure de Chimie Physique Electronique de Lyon in France and an MBA from the Anderson School of 
Management at UCLA.
Mr. Aiman Ezzat has been Chief Executive Officer of Capgemini SE since May 20, 2020. He has also been a 
Director of Capgemini SE and a member of the Strategy & CSR Committee since the same date. He is also a 
Director of Air Liquide since May 4, 2021. In September 2021, he was named the “Best European CEO” for the 
technology and software category in Institutional Investor’s “2021 All Europe Executive Team” annual ranking.
Mr. Aiman Ezzat was Chief Operating Officer of Capgemini SE from January 1, 2018 to May 20, 2020. He 
was Chief Financial Officer of the Group from December 2012 to the end of May 2018. In March 2017, he 
was named the “Best European CFO” for the technology and software category in Institutional Investor’s 
“2017 All European Executive Team” annual ranking.
From December 2008 to 2012, he led the Financial Services Global Business Unit (GBU) after serving as Chief 
Operating Officer from November 2007. Mr. Aiman Ezzat also served as Capgemini’s Deputy Director of 
Strategy from 2005 to 2007. He played a key role in the development of the Booster turnaround plan for 
the Group’s activities in the United States, as well as in the development of the Group’s offshore strategy. 
In 2006, he was part of the acquisition and integration team for Kanbay, a global IT services firm focused 
on the Financial Services industry.
Before joining Capgemini, from 2000 to 2004, Mr. Aiman Ezzat served as Managing Director of International 
Operations at Headstrong, a global business and technology consultancy, where he worked in the Financial 
Services sector.
This came after nine years at Gemini Consulting (Gemini Consulting was the former brand of the strategic and 
transformation consulting arm of the Capgemini group, which subsequently became Capgemini Consulting 
and then Invent), where he held a number of roles including Global Head of the Oil, Gas and Chemicals practice.
Mr. Aiman Ezzat is a Knight of the Legion of Honor.
Principal office:
Mr. Aiman Ezzat has been Chief Executive Officer of Capgemini SE since May 20, 2020.
OFFICES HELD IN 2023 OR CURRENT OFFICES AT DECEMBER 31, 2023
Chief Executive Officer of:
 —  CAPGEMINI SE* (since May 20, 2020)
director of:
 —  CAPGEMINI SE* (since May 20, 2020)
 —  L’AIR LIQUIDE S.A.* (since May 4, 2021)
Other offices held in Capgemini group:
Chairman of:
 —  SOGETI FRANCE 2005 S.A.S.  
(since May 2018)
 —  CAPGEMINI SERVICE S.A.S.  
(since May 20, 2020)
 —  CAPGEMINI LATIN AMERICA S.A.S.  
(since May 20, 2020)
 —  CAPGEMINI 2023 (since May 23, 2023)Chairman of the Board of d irectors of:
 —  CAPGEMINI NORTH AMERICA, INC.  
(United States) (since May 20, 2020)
 —  CAPGEMINI AMERICA, INC. (United States) 
(since May 20, 2020)
Chairman of the s upervisory Board of:
 —  CAPGEMINI NV (Netherlands)  
(since November 27, 2020)
Chief Executive Officer of:
 —  CAPGEMINI NORTH AMERICA, INC.  
(United States) (since May 20, 2020)
director of:
 —  CAPGEMINI INTERNATIONAL BV (Netherlands) 
(since May 20, 2020)
 —  PURPOSE GLOBAL PNC (United States)  
(since April 17, 2020)
 —  CAPGEMINI TECHNOLOGY SERVICES INDIA 
LIMITED (India) (since January 19, 2021)

CorPor ATe GovernAnCe
Company management and administration
55
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI2oTher o FFIC es he Ld dur InG The LA sT FIve Y eArs (oFFIC es e XPIred )
Offices held in Capgemini group:
Chief Operating Officer of:
 —  CAPGEMINI SE* (until May 20, 2020)
Chairman of:
 —  ALTRAN TECHNOLOGIES S.A.S.  
(until June 7, 2021)
director of:
 —  CAPGEMINI SINGAPORE PTE LTD (Singapore) 
(until November 2019)
 —  CAPGEMINI HONG KONG LTD (China)  
(until October 2019)
 —  CAPGEMINI CANADA INC. (Canada)  
(until March 2019)
 —  GESTION CAPGEMINI QUEBEC INC. (Canada) 
(until March 2019)
 —  CAPGEMINI AUSTRALIA PTY LTD (Australia) 
(until April 2019)
 —  SOGETI SVERIGE AB (Sweden)  
(until June 2019)
 —  SOGETI SVERIGE MITT AB (Sweden)  
(until November 2019) —  CGS HOLDING (United Kingdom)  
(until February 2019)
 —  SOGETI UK LTD (United Kingdom)  
(until July 1, 2020)
 —  CAPGEMINI ESPAÑA S.L. (Spain)  
(until July 28, 2020)
 —  CAPGEMINI SOLUTIONS CANADA INC. 
(Canada) (until June 19, 2020)
 —  CAPGEMINI TECHNOLOGIES LLC  
(United States) (until June 19, 2020)
 —  CAPGEMINI UK PLC (United Kingdom)  
(until July 1, 2020)
 —  CAPGEMINI (Hangzhou) CO. LTD (China)  
(until November 4, 2020)
 —  RESTAURANT APPLICATION DEVELOPMENT 
INTERNATIONAL (United States)  
(until June 19, 2020)
 —  RADI HOLDING LLC (United States)  
(until June 12, 2020)
Member of the s upervisory Board of:
 —  SOGETI NEDERLAND BV (Netherlands)  
(until November 27, 2020)
* Listed company.

CorPor ATe GovernAnCe
Company management and administration
56
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT2
date of birth:
May 21, 1973
nationality:
Canadian
Business address:
Siemens Energy AG, 
Siemenspromenade 9
91058 Erlangen  
Germany
First appointment:
2022
Expiry of term of office:
2026 (Ordinary 
Shareholders’ Meeting 
held to approve the 2025 
financial statements)
number of shares held  
at December 31, 2023:
500 MARIA FERRARO
Independent d irector
Member of the Audit & r isk Committee
BIoGrAPhY – P roFessI onAL e XPerIenCe
Ms. Maria Ferraro was appointed Member of the Executive Board and Chief Financial Officer of Siemens 
Energy AG and Member of the Executive Board and Chief Financial Officer of Siemens Energy Management 
GmbH effective May 1, 2020. Prior to her appointment, she held several senior management positions in 
Corporate Finance within Siemens in the United Kingdom, as well as in Canada, Germany and the United States.
Before being appointed Chief Financial Officer of Siemens Energy, Ms. Maria Ferraro held the position of Chief 
Financial Officer for the Digital Industries operating company as well as Chief Diversity Officer at Siemens AG.
Ms. Maria Ferraro was born and educated in Canada. She is a designated Chartered Accountant and spent 
her early career with PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) and Nortel Networks, holding a variety of roles in 
Canada and on a global level whilst gaining in -depth experience in European and Asian markets.
She joined the Board of Directors of Capgemini SE on May 19, 2022 and was appointed a member of the 
Audit & Risk Committee at the same date.
Ms. Maria Ferraro has acquired throughout her career financial expertise and solid experience in the 
manufacturing, technology and energy sectors within a global group at the heart of the Intelligent Industry’s 
development. She also brings to the Board her inclusion and diversity expertise, as well as her knowledge 
of European and Asian markets.
Principal office:
Member of the Management Board and Chief Financial Officer of Siemens Energy AG and Siemens Energy 
Management GmbH
Chief Inclusion and Diversity Officer
OFFICES HELD IN 2023 OR CURRENT OFFICES AT DECEMBER 31, 2023
director of:
 —  CAPGEMINI SE* (since May 19, 2022)Offices held in Siemens Group:
Member of the Management Board of:
 —  SIEMENS ENERGY AG* (Germany)  
(since May 1, 2020) 
 — SIEMENS ENERGY MANAGEMENT GMBH 
(Germany) (since May 1, 2020)
oTher o FFIC es he Ld dur InG The LA sT FIve Y eArs (oFFIC es e XPIred )
director of:
 —  SIEMENS GAMESA RENEWABLE ENERGY S.A.* (Spain) (until December 2022)
 —  SIEMENS LTD SEOUL (South Korea) (until May 2020)
* Listed company.

CorPor ATe GovernAnCe
Company management and administration
57
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI2
date of birth:
May 14, 1966
nationality:
French
Business address:
Sogeti Luxembourg,
36 route de Longwy 
L-8080 Bertrange 
Luxembourg
First appointment:
2022
Expiry of term of office:
2024 (Ordinary 
Shareholders’ Meeting 
held to approve the 2023 
financial statements)
number of shares held  
at December 31, 2023:
322PIERRE GOULAIEFF
director representing employees
Member of the Compensation Committee
BIoGrAPhY – P roFessI onAL e XPerIenCe
Mr. Pierre Goulaieff initially trained as an electronic engineer (ISEN), leading him first to design maintenance 
and simulation tools for automated means of transport and then to become head of production at a 
co-manufacturing site.
He also holds an MBA from the University of Nancy 2, a Master in Human Resources from Paris 2 Panthéon-
Assas/CIFFOP University and a Master in IT and Innovation (Nancy 2 and Namur Universities).
Mr. Pierre Goulaieff joined the Capgemini group in 1998 with Capgemini Luxembourg, which became Sogeti 
Luxembourg in 2005, where he has held various functions (analyst, project manager and then test manager).
He is also Chairman of the Sogeti Luxembourg employee delegation since 2002.
He was a member of the International Works Council (IWC) from 2002 to 2022, a member of the IWC 
Bureau from 2006 to 2022 and Secretary of the IWC from 2016 to 2022 and his appointment as a Director 
representing employees.
Mr. Pierre Goulaieff was appointed as a Director representing employees on the Capgemini SE Board of 
Directors from January 27, 2022 and a member of the Compensation Committee from May 19, 2022.
Mr. Pierre Goulaieff brings to the Board of Directors his in -depth knowledge of the Capgemini group and 
its businesses, as well as his experience of technological environments and his perspective as an employee, 
thus contributing to the diversity of profiles represented on the Board.
Principal office:
Director representing employees
OFFICES HELD IN 2023 OR CURRENT OFFICES AT DECEMBER 31, 2023
director of:
 —  CAPGEMINI SE* (since January 27, 2022)
oTher o FFIC es he Ld dur InG The LA sT FIve Y eArs (oFFIC es e XPIred )
N/A
* Listed company.

CorPor ATe GovernAnCe
Company management and administration
58
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT2
date of birth:
September 13, 1960
nationality:
British
Business address:
Capgemini SE,  
11 rue de Tilsitt  
75017 Paris
First appointment:
2016
Expiry of term of office:
2024 (Ordinary 
Shareholders’ Meeting 
held to approve the 2023 
financial statements)
number of shares held  
at December 31, 2023:
1,000SIÂN HERBERT-JONES
Independent d irector
Member of the Audit & r isk Committee
Member of the e thics & Governance Committee
BIoGrAPhY – P roFessI onAL e XPerIenCe
A British Chartered Accountant, Ms. Siân Herbert-Jones initially worked for 13 years with PricewaterhouseCoopers 
in its London and then Paris offices, where she was in charge of mergers and acquisitions (from 1983 to 
1993). She then joined the Sodexo Group, where she spent 21 years, including 15 years as Chief Financial 
Officer and member of the Group Executive Committee (until February 28, 2016). She was a director of 
Air Liquide S.A. (from 2011 to 2023), where she chaired the Audit & Accounts Committee. She has been a 
director of Bureau Veritas since May 17, 2016 and has been a member of the Audit & Risk Committee since 
May 2017. She has chaired this Committee since February 2021.
Ms. Siân Herbert-Jones joined the Board of Directors of Capgemini SE on May 18, 2016. She has been a 
member of the Audit & Risk Committee (formerly the Audit Committee) since this date and has been a 
member of the Ethics & Governance Committee since May 19, 2022.
Of British nationality, she brings strong financial and audit expertise to the Board, as well as her experience 
with international transactions, particularly in the service sector (BtoB). She also contributes to the Board 
her multi -cultural management experience and expertise and her experience as an Independent Director 
on the Boards of leading international companies.
Principal office:
Independent Director
OFFICES HELD IN 2023 OR CURRENT OFFICES AT DECEMBER 31, 2023
director of:
 —  CAPGEMINI SE* (since May 2016)
 —  L’AIR LIQUIDE S.A.* (until May 2023)
 —  BUREAU VERITAS* (since May 2016)
oTher o FFIC es he Ld dur InG The LA sT FIve Y eArs (oFFIC es e XPIred )
director of:
 —  COMPAGNIE FINANCIÈRE AURORE INTERNATIONALE, a Sodexo group subsidiary  
(until December 2021)
* Listed company.

CorPor ATe GovernAnCe
Company management and administration
59
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI2
date of birth:
August 21, 1963
nationality:
French
Business address:
Capgemini  
Technology Services, 
43 rue Pré Gaudry  
69007 Lyon
First appointment:
2020
Expiry of term of office:
2024 (Ordinary 
Shareholders’ Meeting 
held to approve the 2023 
financial statements)
number of shares held at 
December 31, 2023:
12HERVÉ JEANNIN
director representing employees
Member of the s trategy & C sr Committee
BIoGrAPhY – P roFessI onAL e XPerIenCe
Mr. Hervé Jeannin joined Capgemini as an analyst in February 1984, after finishing his studies. He designed 
and managed IT projects for a range of clients until 1999. From 2000 to 2004 he developed a client account 
as a sales engineer within the Group. Between 2005 and 2015 he managed employee relations through 
a variety of roles (employee representative, works Committee, Health and Safety Committee, union 
representative, Union General Secretary), which he held part -time from 1993, the date of his first office 
as employee representative.
From 2016 to 2022, he was in charge of workplace first aid and evacuation training within the Group in 
France. He provided the Group with his experience in the field as first responder and psychological support 
provider with the French Rescue and Emergency Federation (FFSS) and the civil protection organization. 
Since May 2022, he has been an advisor to the European Commission on industrial transformation, mainly 
in the technological fields.
Mr. Hervé Jeannin was also a member of the International Work Council (IWC) from 2012 to 2020, enabling 
him to gain a global vision of the Group. Traveling through 50 countries, he has met with many Group 
employees at various sites.
He joined the Board of Directors on May 20, 2020 as a Director representing employees. He has also been 
a member of the Strategy & CSR Committee since that date.
Mr. Hervé Jeannin brings to the Board the perspective of an employee with considerable experience of 
employee relations, dialogue and negotiations gained over 30 years as an employee representative and his 
knowledge of the Company and its businesses thanks to 40 years spent with the Group in several business 
lines and six cities.
Principal office:
Mr. Hervé Jeannin is, since May 2022, an advisor to the European Commission on industrial transformation, 
mainly in the technological fields.
OFFICES HELD IN 2023 OR CURRENT OFFICES AT DECEMBER 31, 2023
director of:
 —  CAPGEMINI SE* (since May 20, 2020)
oTher o FFIC es he Ld dur InG The LA sT FIve Y eArs (oFFIC es e XPIred )
N/A
* Listed company.

CorPor ATe GovernAnCe
Company management and administration
60
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT2
date of birth:
June 15, 1973
nationality:
Spanish
Business address:
Capgemini SE,  
11 rue de Tilsitt  
75017 Paris
First appointment:
2020
Expiry of term of office:
2024 (Ordinary 
Shareholders’ Meeting 
held to approve the 2023 
financial statements)
number of shares held  
at December 31, 2023:
1,000 BELEN MOSCOSO DEL PRADO LOPEZ-DORIGA
Independent d irector
Member of the Compensation Committee
BIoGrAPhY – P roFessI onAL e XPerIenCe
In 2023, Ms. Belen Moscoso del Prado Lopez-Doriga was appointed Chief Digital & Data Officer and member 
of the Executive Committee of the Lesaffre Group, a global leader in fermentation and micro -organisms.
Before joining Lesaffre, Belen was Chief Digital & Innovation Officer and member of the Executive Committee 
at Sodexo. She also sat on Sodexo’s Venture Capital Investment Committee and was Chairman of the 
Foodchéri Board of Directors. Aligned with her commitments, she was also an Executive Committee sponsor 
of SoTogether, Sodexo’s diversity and inclusion global program.
Between 2008 and 2015, she held several positions leading digital transformations: at Axa Group, as Director 
of Digital Strategy, Transformation, and Innovation and at Solocal, as Head of Strategy, M& A and Partnerships.
For eight years, she was a consultant at Bain & Company, where she accompanied clients on strategic 
reviews, performance improvements and post -acquisition integration assignments in Europe and Central 
America. She started her career in 1995, in Spain, at The Walt Disney Company, where she held different 
positions in marketing.
During her career, she has also advised multiple start -ups and promoted building winning relations with 
corporations to develop long -lasting partnerships.
Ms. Belen Moscoso del Prado Lopez-Doriga holds a Master’s degree in International Economics from Carlos 
II University in Spain.
She joined the Board of Directors of Capgemini SE on May 20, 2020 and was appointed a member of the 
Compensation Committee on the same date.
Ms. Belen Moscoso del Prado Lopez-Doriga is a Spanish citizen. She has acquired solid experience in the 
field of innovation and transformation applied to Digital and Data strategy over the course of her career 
in international corporations.
Principal office:
Ms. Belen Moscoso del Prado Lopez-Doriga is Chief Digital & Data Officer and a member of the Executive 
Committee of Lesaffre Group.
OFFICES HELD IN 2023 OR CURRENT OFFICES AT DECEMBER 31, 2023
director of:
 —  CAPGEMINI SE* (since May 20, 2020)
oTher o FFIC es he Ld dur InG The LA sT FIve Y eArs (oFFIC es e XPIred )
Chairman of the Board of d irectors of:
 —  FOODCHERI (until December 2022)
director of:
 —  ADVEO INTERNATIONAL (until October 2019)Member of the Consultative Advisory Board of:
 —  WYND (until February 2021)
* Listed company.

CorPor ATe GovernAnCe
Company management and administration
61
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI2
date of birth:
February 23, 1960
nationality:
French
Business address:
Crédit Agricole S.A.,  
12 place des États-Unis 
92120 Montrouge
First appointment:
2014
Expiry of term of office:
2026 (Ordinary 
Shareholders’ Meeting 
held to approve the 2025 
financial statements)
number of shares held  
at December 31, 2023:
1,000 XAVIER MUSCA
Independent d irector
Chairman of the Audit & r isk Committee
Member of the e thics & Governance Committee
BIoGrAPhY – P roFessI onAL e XPerIenCe
A graduate of Institut d’Etudes Politiques in Paris and École Nationale d’Administration, Mr. Xavier Musca 
began his career at the General Finance Inspectorate in 1985. In 1989, he joined the Treasury Directorate, 
where he became Head of the European Affairs Bureau in 1990. In 1993, he was called to the Prime Minister’s 
staff, then returned to the Treasury Directorate in 1995. Between 2002 and 2004, he was Principal Private 
Secretary to Francis Mer, Minister for the Economy, Finance and Industry and was then appointed Treasury 
Director in 2004. He was subsequently appointed Chief Executive Officer of Treasury and Economic Policy 
in June 2005. In these positions, he played a key role in preparing major European and global summits at the 
start of the financial crisis. He was the French negotiator at IMF and World Bank meetings and coordinated 
the bailout of the European Union banking sector with his European counterparts. In 2009, he became 
Deputy Secretary General to the French President in charge of economic affairs and was responsible for 
negotiations at the G20 meeting in London on April 2, 2009 on placing the global financial system on a 
sounder footing and improving supervision and the fight against tax havens. He was appointed Secretary 
General to the French President in 2011.
On June 13, 2012, Mr. Xavier Musca was appointed Deputy Chief Executive Officer of Crédit Agricole SA, 
responsible for International retail banking, Asset management and Insurance. He has been Deputy Chief 
Executive Officer of Crédit Agricole SA, as effective second Executive Director of Crédit Agricole SA, since 
May 2015. He has also been Chief Executive Officer of Crédit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank (CACIB) 
since September 1, 2022.
Xavier Musca is a Knight (2009) and Officer (2022) of the Legion of Honor and of the National Order of Merit 
and the Order of Agricultural Merit.
Mr. Xavier Musca joined the Board of Directors of Capgemini SE on May 7, 2014. He has been a member of 
the Audit & Risk Committee (formerly the Audit Committee) since this date and was appointed Chairman 
on December 7, 2016. He has been a member of the Ethics & Governance Committee since May 20, 2021.
Mr. Xavier Musca brings to the Board of Directors his management experience with a major international 
group and his financial expertise. He has in -depth knowledge of the financial sector, including both retail 
and BtoB services, in a group committed to financing energy transition and responsible investment. He also 
provides the Board with his knowledge of economic globalization issues.
Principal office:
Mr. Xavier Musca is Deputy Chief Executive Officer of Crédit Agricole S.A. and Chief Executive Officer of CACIB.
OFFICES HELD IN 2023 OR CURRENT OFFICES AT DECEMBER 31, 2023
director of:
 —  CAPGEMINI SE* (since May 2014)
Offices held in Crédit Agricole Group:
Deputy Chief Executive Officer (since July 2012)  
and effective second Executive Director  
(since May 2015) of:
 —  CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A.* (Member of the 
Management Committee – Member of the 
Group Executive Committee)Chief Executive Officer of:
 —  CRÉDIT AGRICOLE CORPORATE & INVESTMENT 
BANK (since September 2022)
Chairman of the Board of d irectors of:
 —  CACEIS BANK (since September 2022)
 —  IDIA CAPITAL INVESTISSEMENT  
(until February 2023)
oTher o FFIC es he Ld dur InG The LA sT FIve Y eArs (oFFIC es e XPIred )
Offices held in Crédit Agricole Group:
Chairman of the Board of d irectors of:
 —  AMUNDI S.A.* (until May 2021)
director of:
 —  AMUNDI S.A.* (until September 2022)
 —  CA ASSURANCES (until September 2022) Chairman of the Board of d irectors of:
 —  CA CONSUMER FINANCE (until September 2022)
director – v ice-Chairman of:
 —  PREDICA (until September 2022)
 —  CA ITALIA (until September 2022)
 Permanent representative of CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. 
on the Board of d irectors of: 
 — PACIFICA (until September 2022)
* Listed company.

CorPor ATe GovernAnCe
Company management and administration
62
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT2
date of birth:
July 3, 1963
nationality:
French
Business address:
Sanofi,
46 avenue de  
la Grande Armée
75017 Paris
First appointment:
2018
Expiry of term of office:
2026 (Ordinary 
Shareholders’ Meeting 
held to approve the 2025 
financial statements)
number of shares held  
at December 31, 2023:
1,000 FRÉDÉRIC OUDÉA
Independent d irector
Lead Independent d irector, v ice-Chairman and Chairman of the e thics & Governance Committee
BIoGrAPhY – P roFessI onAL e XPerIenCe
Mr. Frédéric Oudéa is a graduate of the École Polytechnique and the École Nationale d’Administration.
From 1987 to 1995, Mr. Frédéric Oudéa held various positions in the French senior civil service (Audit 
Department of the Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Economy and Finance, Budget Ministry, Private Office 
of the Minister of Budget and Communication). In 1995, he joined Société Générale and in 1996 he was 
appointed Deputy Head then Head of the bank’s Corporate Banking arm in London. In 1998, he became 
Head of Global Supervision and Development of the Equities division. In May 2002, he was named Deputy 
Chief Financial Officer of Société Générale Group, followed by Chief Financial Officer in January 2003. In 
2008 he was appointed CEO of the Group, before becoming Chairman and Chief Executive Officer in 2009. 
In May 2015, following the regulatory split between the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, he 
was appointed Chief Executive Officer. He held this position until May 2023. Mr. Oudéa was a director of 
the listed company ALD, a subsidiary of the Société Générale group, from February to December 2023.
Mr. Frédéric Oudéa has been Chairman of the Board of Directors of Sanofi since May 25, 2023. He has 
been Chairman of the École Polytechnique Foundation and a member of the Board of Directors of École 
Polytechnique since January 2022. He has also been Senior Executive Advisor of Groupe Bruxelles Lambert 
(GBL) since November 1, 2023.
Mr. Frédéric Oudéa is a Knight of the Legion of Honor and an Officer of the National Order of Merit.
Mr. Frédéric Oudéa joined the Board of Directors of Capgemini SE on May 23, 2018 and was appointed a 
member of the Ethics & Governance Committee on the same date. He is Lead Independent Director, Vice-
Chairman and Chairman of the Ethics & Governance Committee since May 20, 2021.
Mr. Frédéric Oudéa brings to the Board his experience as former head of a leading banking group with an 
ambitious international development plan, which is highly innovative in digital and committed to energy 
transition as part of a sustainable finance approach.
Principal office:
Mr. Frédéric Oudéa is Chairman of the Board of Directors of Sanofi, since May 2023.
OFFICES HELD IN 2023 OR CURRENT OFFICES AT DECEMBER 31, 2023
director of:
 —  CAPGEMINI SE* (since May 2018)
 —  ALD* (until December 15, 2023)
Chairman of the Board of d irectors of:
 —  SANOFI* (since May 2023)
senior e xecutive Advisor of:
 —  GROUPE BRUXELLES LAMBERT (GBL)* (Belgium) 
(since November 1, 2023)non-voting member on the Board of d irectors of:
 —  SANOFI* (until May 2023)
Chief Executive Officer of:
 —  SOCIÉTÉ GÉNÉRALE* (until May 2023)
oTher o FFIC es he Ld dur InG The LA sT FIve Y eArs (oFFIC es e XPIred )
N/A
* Listed company.

CorPor ATe GovernAnCe
Company management and administration
63
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI2
date of birth:
June 24, 1963
nationality:
French
Business address:
TotalEnergies,  
2 place Jean Millier 
92400 Courbevoie
First appointment:
2017
Expiry of term of office:
2025 (Ordinary 
Shareholders’ Meeting 
held to approve the 2024 
financial statements)
number of shares held  
at December 31, 2023:
1,000 PATRICK POUYANNÉ
Independent d irector
Chairman of the Compensation Committee
Member of the e thics & Governance Committee
BIoGrAPhY – P roFessI onAL e XPerIenCe
Mr. Patrick Pouyanné is a graduate of École Polytechnique and a Chief Engineer of France’s Corps des Mines. 
Between 1989 and 1996, he held various administrative positions in the Ministry of Industry and other cabinet 
positions (technical advisor to the Prime Minister – Edouard Balladur – in the fields of the Environment and 
Industry from 1993 to 1995, Chief of Staff for the Minister for Information and Aerospace Technologies – 
François Fillon – from 1995 to 1996). In January 1997 he joined Total in Angola followed by Qatar in 1999. 
In August 2002, he was appointed President, Finance, Economy and IT for Exploration & Production. In 
January 2006, he became President, Strategy, Growth and Research and was appointed a member of the 
Group’s Management Committee in May 2006. In March 2011, Mr. Patrick Pouyanné was appointed Vice-
President, Chemicals, and Vice-President, Petrochemicals. In January 2012, he became President, Refining 
& Chemicals and a member of the Group’s Executive Committee.
On October 22, 2014, he was appointed Chief Executive Officer of TOTAL S.A. and President of the Group’s 
Executive Committee. TOTAL’s Board of Directors appointed him as its Chairman from December 19, 2015. 
Following the renewal of Mr. Pouyanné’s term of office as director by the Shareholders’ Meetings of June 1, 
2018 and then May 28, 2021 for a period of three years, the Board of Directors confirmed him in his duties 
of Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer for the same period.
On June 1, 2022, Mr. Pouyanné was appointed Chairman of the French non -profit, Entreprises pour 
l’Environnement (EpE). Mr. Pouyanné has also been the Chairman of the non -profit L’Alliance pour l’Éducation-
United Way since June 2018. In addition, he is a member of the Board of Directors of École Polytechnique 
(since September 2018), Association Française des Entreprises Privées (since 2014), Institut du Monde Arabe 
(since 2017) and the foundation La France s’engage (since 2017).
Mr. Pouyanné is an Officer of the Legion of Honor.
Mr. Pouyanné has been a Director of Capgemini SE since May 10, 2017 and Chairman of the Compensation 
Committee since May 19, 2022. He has been a member of the Ethics & Governance Committee since May 20, 
2021.
He brings to the Board of Directors of Capgemini SE his expertise in macroeconomic and geopolitical 
issues and his experience in managing a leading international energy group, a sector facing climate change 
challenges and where new technologies play an essential role.
Principal office:
Mr. Patrick Pouyanné has been Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of TotalEnergies SE (formerly TOTAL SE) 
since December 2015. He has been a director of TotalEnergies SE since May 2015 and is Chairman of the 
Strategy & CSR Committee.
OFFICES HELD IN 2023 OR CURRENT OFFICES AT DECEMBER 31, 2023
director of:
 —  CAPGEMINI SE* (since May 2017)
 —  École Polytechnique (a Public scientific, 
cultural and professional institution under 
French law) (since September 2018)
 —  AFEP (French Association of Large  
Companies) (since 2014)
 —  Institut du Monde Arabe (since 2017)
 —  Foundation La France s’engage (since 2017)Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of:
 —  TOTALENERGIES SE* (since December 2015)
Chairman of:
 —  Association L’Alliance pour l’Éducation-United 
Way (since June 2018)
 —  French non -profit Entreprises pour 
l’Environnement (EpE) (since June 2022)
oTher o FFIC es he Ld dur InG The LA sT FIve Y eArs (oFFIC es e XPIred )
N/A
* Listed company.

CorPor ATe GovernAnCe
Company management and administration
64
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT2
date of birth:
October 13, 1964
nationality:
French
Business address:
Bouygues SA,
32 avenue Hoche
75008 Paris
First appointment:
2022
Expiry of term of office:
2026 (Ordinary 
Shareholders’ Meeting 
held to approve the 2025 
financial statements)
number of shares held  
at December 31, 2023:
500 OLIVIER ROUSSAT
Independent d irector
Member of the s trategy & C sr Committee
BIoGrAPhY – P roFessI onAL e XPerIenCe
Mr. Olivier Roussat is a graduate of Institut national des sciences appliquées (INSA) in Lyon.
He began his career with IBM in 1988 where he held a range of positions in data network services, service 
delivery and pre -sales. He joined Bouygues Telecom in 1995 to set up the network management center and 
network processes. He then became head of network operations, and telecoms and IT service delivery. 
In May 2003, he was appointed network manager and became a member of the Executive Committee of 
Bouygues Telecom. In January 2007, Mr. Olivier Roussat took charge of the Performance and Technology 
unit which groups Bouygues Telecom’s cross -disciplinary technical and IT departments, including networks, 
information systems, process engineering, purchasing, corporate services and property development. He 
was also given responsibility for Bouygues Telecom’s headquarters and Technopôle buildings.
Mr. Olivier Roussat became Deputy Chief Executive Officer of Bouygues Telecom in February 2007 and was 
appointed Chief Executive Officer in November 2007. He was then Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 
of Bouygues Telecom from May 2013 to November 2018, before being appointed Chairman of the Board 
of Directors until February 2021. He was appointed Chairman of the Board of Directors of Colas from 
October 2019 until February 2021.
On August 30, 2016, Mr. Olivier Roussat was appointed Deputy CEO of Bouygues and on February 17, 2021, 
he was appointed Chief Executive Officer of Bouygues.
Mr. Olivier Roussat joined the Board of Directors of Capgemini SE on May 19, 2022 and was appointed a 
member of the Strategy & CSR Committee on the same date.
Chief Executive Officer of a global construction, energy and transport infrastructures group, which is also 
a leader in the French media sector and a major telecoms player in France, Mr. Olivier Roussat brings to 
the Board his sector experience, particularly in the telecoms and media sector, his expertise in digital and 
technology transformation. as well as his understanding of climate emergency and biodiversity issues.
Principal office:
Mr. Olivier Roussat is Chief Executive Officer of Bouygues SA.
OFFICES HELD IN 2023 OR CURRENT OFFICES AT DECEMBER 31, 2023
director of:
 —  CAPGEMINI SE* (since May 2022)
Offices held in Bouygues Group:
Chief Executive Officer of:
 —  BOUYGUES S.A.* (since February 17, 2021)director of:
 —  TF1* (since April 9, 2009)
 —  BOUYGUES CONSTRUCTION  
(since November 15, 2016)
 —  COLAS* (since April 20, 2021)
 —  BOUYGUES TELECOM (since April 16, 2021)
 —  EQUANS* (since November 7, 2022)
Member of the Board of:
 —  BOUYGUES IMMOBILIER  
(since December 9, 2016)
oTher o FFIC es he Ld dur InG The LA sT FIve Y eArs (oFFIC es e XPIred )
Deputy Chief Executive Officer of:
 —  BOUYGUES S.A.* (until February 17, 2021)Chairman of the Board of d irectors of:
 —  BOUYGUES TELECOM  
(from November 2018 to February 2021)
 —  COLAS* (from October 2019 to February 2021)
* Listed company.

CorPor ATe GovernAnCe
Company management and administration
65
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI2
date of birth:
April 9, 1969
nationality:
German
Business address:
NXP Semiconductors N.V.,
High Tech Campus,  
5656 AG, Eindhoven,
Pays-Bas
First appointment:
2021
Expiry of term of office:
2025 (Ordinary 
Shareholders’ Meeting 
held to approve the 2024 
financial statements)
number of shares held  
at December 31, 2023:
1,000 KURT SIEVERS
Independent d irector
Member of the s trategy & C sr Committee
Member of the Compensation Committee
BIoGrAPhY – P roFessI onAL e XPerIenCe
Mr. Kurt Sievers, a German citizen, graduated with a Master of Science degree in physics and information 
technology from Augsburg University (Germany).
Mr. Kurt Sievers is President and Chief Executive Officer of NXP Semiconductors N.V. since May 2020. 
He joined NXP in 1995, and rapidly moved through a series of Marketing & Sales, Product Definition & 
Development, Strategy and general management leadership positions across a broad number of market 
segments. He has been a member of the Executive Management team since 2009, where he has been 
instrumental in the definition and implementation of the NXP high -performance mixed signal strategy. Mr. 
Sievers was influential in the merger of NXP and Freescale Semiconductor, which created one of the leading 
semiconductor companies and a leader in automotive semiconductors.
Mr. Kurt Sievers serves on the Board of the German National Electrical and Electronics Industry Association 
(ZVEI) and the Global Semiconductor Alliance (GSA). He also serves as Chairman of AENEAS, a European 
cluster for application and technology research and nano -electronics. He serves as a member of the Asia-
Pacific Committee of German Business (APA) and as a member of the Board at the German Asia-Pacific 
Business Association (OAV), acting as the spokesperson for the Republic of Korea.
He joined the Board of Directors of Capgemini SE on May 20, 2021 and was appointed a member of the 
Strategy & CSR Committee and the Compensation Committee on the same date.
He brings to the Board of Directors his management experience in a leading international group in the 
semiconductor sector, a sector at the heart of the Intelligent Industry’s development and ecological transition 
challenges, as well as industrial sovereignty. Mr. Sievers also brings his expertise in the automotive sector, 
technology and artificial intelligence, and his knowledge of North America and American Corporate Governance.
Principal office:
Mr. Kurt Sievers is President and Chief Executive Officer and Executive Director of NXP Semiconductors N.V.
OFFICES HELD IN 2023 OR CURRENT OFFICES AT DECEMBER 31, 2023
director of:
 —  CAPGEMINI SE* (since May 20, 2021)
President and Chief Executive Officer of:
 —  NXP SEMICONDUCTORS N.V.* (Netherlands) 
(since May 27, 2020)
Member of:
 —  THE BOARD OF THE GLOBAL  
SEMICONDUCTOR ALLIANCE (GSA)  
(since March 2021)
 —  THE BOARD OF THE GERMAN NATIONAL 
ELECTRICAL AND ELECTRONICS INDUSTRY 
ASSOCIATION (ZVEI) (since 2012) —  THE ASIA-PACIFIC COMMITTEE OF GERMAN 
BUSINESS (APA) (since 2018)
 —  THE BOARD OF THE GERMAN ASIA-PACIFIC 
BUSINESS ASSOCIATION (OAV) (since 2018)
Chairman of:
 —  ESIA (European Semiconductor Industry 
Association) (until December 2023)
 —  THE BOARD OF AENEAS, INDUSTRY 
ASSOCIATION (since 2021)
oTher o FFIC es he Ld dur InG The LA sT FIve Y eArs (oFFIC es e XPIred )
Chief Executive Officer of:
 —  NXP SEMICONDUCTORS GERMANY GMBH  
(until May 2020)Chair of the Advisory Board of:
 —  SALON INTERNATIONAL ELECTRONICA  
(until June 2021)
* Listed company.

CorPor ATe GovernAnCe
Company management and administration
66
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT2
date of birth:
January 19, 1964
nationality:
French
Business address:
Capgemini Service,  
76 avenue Kléber 
75016 Paris
First appointment:
2012
Expiry of term of office:
2024 (Ordinary 
Shareholders’ Meeting 
held to approve the 2023 
financial statements)
number of shares held at 
December 31, 2023:
27,227 LUCIA SINAPI-THOMAS
director representing employee shareholders
Member of the Compensation Committee
BIoGrAPhY – P roFessI onAL e XPerIenCe
Ms. Lucia Sinapi-Thomas graduated from ESSEC business school (1986) and Paris Law University – Panthéon 
Assas (1988), was admitted to the Paris bar (1989), and has a financial analyst diploma (SFAF 1997). She 
started her career as a tax and business lawyer in 1986, before joining Capgemini in 1992. She has more than 
30 years’ experience within Capgemini group, successively as Group Tax Advisor (1992), Head of Corporate 
Finance, Treasury and Investors Relations (1999), then Head of Risk Management and Insurance (2005), and 
member of the Group Review Board. She was Deputy Chief Financial Officer from 2013 until December 31, 
2015 and was appointed Executive Director Business Platforms of Capgemini group in January 2016. Ms. Lucia 
Sinapi-Thomas has been Executive Director of Capgemini Ventures since January 1, 2019.
Ms. Lucia Sinapi-Thomas was appointed to the Dassault Aviation Board of Directors on May 15, 2014, where 
she is also a member of the Audit Committee. She has also been a director of Bureau Veritas since May 22, 
2013 and was a member of the Audit & Risk Committee until May 2019 when she became a member of the 
Selection & Compensation Committee.
Ms. Lucia Sinapi-Thomas joined the Board of Directors of Capgemini SE as a Director representing employee 
shareholders on May 24, 2012. She has been a member of the Compensation Committee since June 20, 2012.
Ms. Lucia Sinapi-Thomas brings to the Board her finance expertise and her extensive knowledge of the 
Capgemini group, its businesses, offerings and clients, enriched by her ongoing operating responsibilities. In 
addition, her experience as a director of Euronext listed companies provides her with a perspective offering 
insight relevant to Capgemini’s various activities.
Principal office:
Ms. Lucia Sinapi-Thomas is Executive Director of Capgemini Ventures.
OFFICES HELD IN 2023 OR CURRENT OFFICES AT DECEMBER 31, 2023
director of:
 —  CAPGEMINI SE* (since May 2012)
 —  BUREAU VERITAS* (since May 2013)
 —  DASSAULT AVIATION* (since May 2014)Other offices held in Capgemini group:
Chief Executive Officer of:
 —  CAPGEMINI VENTURES (since June 24, 2019)
director of:
 —  AZQORE (Switzerland) (since April 24, 2020)
oTher o FFIC es he Ld dur InG The LA sT FIve Y eArs (oFFIC es e XPIred )
Offices held in Capgemini group:
Chairman of the s upervisory Board of:
 —  FCPE CAPGEMINI (until April 2022)
Member of the s upervisory Board of:
 —  FCPE ESOP CAPGEMINI (until April 2022)
Chairman of:
 —  CAPGEMINI EMPLOYEES WORLDWIDE S.A.S. 
(until June 2019)
non-voting member
 —  AZQORE (Switzerland) (until April 2020)director of:
 —  SOGETI SVERIGE AB (Sweden) (until June 2021)
 —  FIFTY FIVE GENESIS PROJECT INC.  
(United States) (until October 2021)
 —  CAPGEMINI BUSINESS SERVICES 
GUATEMALA S.A. (until August 2019)
 —  SOGETI SVERIGE MITT AB (Sweden)  
(until July 2019)
 —  SOGETI NORGE A/S (Norway) (until May 2019)
 —  CAPGEMINI DANMARK A/S (Denmark)  
(until May 2019)
* Listed company.

CorPor ATe GovernAnCe
Company management and administration
67
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI2215  Group Management
Since May 20, 2020, Capgemini SE Group management has been led by Mr. Aiman Ezzat.
It prepares the broad strategies submitted to the Executive 
Committee for approval and facilitates the carrying out of the 
Group’s operations. It also takes the necessary measures with 
regards to the appointment, setting of quantitative objectives and 
performance appraisal of executives with a wide range of 
responsibilities.It assists Group management to define broad strategies and make 
decisions regarding the Group’s operating structure, the choice 
of priority offerings, production rules and organization, and the 
methods of implementing human resources management.   MANAGEMENT OF THE GROUP   
The Group Review Board The Investment Committee The Risk Committee The Mergers & Acquisitions CommitteeGroup Executive Board
Four special-purpose committees assist Group managementExecutive Committee
Since May 20, 2020, the general management of Capgemini SE has 
been assumed by Mr. Aiman Ezzat, whose biography is presented 
in Section 2.1.4 of this Universal Registration Document.
Group Management is assisted by two bodies comprising the Group’s 
key operating and functional managers: the Group Executive Board 
and the Group Executive Committee.
In addition, four special -purpose committees assist Group Management, 
the Group Executive Board and the Group Executive Committee:
 —  the Group r eview Board , chaired by the Chief Executive 
Officer, which examines the major business proposals in 
the course of drafting or negotiation, multi -national or 
multi -business framework agreements entered into with 
clients or suppliers and major contracts involving guarantees 
given by the Group; —  the Merger & Acquisitions Committee , also chaired by the 
Chief Executive Officer, which examines acquisition and 
divestment projects in the course of identification, selection, 
assessment or negotiation; 
 —  the Investment Committee , chaired by the Chief Financial 
Officer, which reviews and provides advice with respect to 
projects requiring investment, including those involving real 
estate or investment in technologies; 
 —  the risk Committee , chaired by the Chief Financial Officer, 
which is in charge of the effective implementation of the risk 
identification and risk management system and which leads 
the associated internal controls.

CorPor ATe GovernAnCe
Company management and administration
68
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT2As far as the Company is aware, no Group Management member 
has, at any time during the last five years, been found guilty of 
fraud, been involved in any bankruptcy, receivership, or liquidation 
or company placed in administration, been subject to any form of 
official public sanction and/or criminal liability or been disqualified 
by a court from acting as an executive or from participating in the 
management or conduct of the affairs of any issuer.
At the date of this Universal Registration Document and as far as 
the Company is aware, there are no:
 —  family ties between the general management members or 
between a general management member and a director of 
the Company; —  potential conflicts of interest among general management 
members between their duties to the Company and their 
private interests and/or any other duties; 
 —  arrangements or agreements with a shareholder, customer, 
supplier, or other party pursuant to which a general 
management member was selected; 
 —  restrictions on the sale by general management members 
of their investment in the share capital of Capgemini (other 
than the obligation to hold performance shares detailed in 
Section 2.3.2).
For information on the compensation of Executive Corporate 
Officers, please refer to Section 2.3 of the Universal Registration 
Document.
Group Executive Board
The role of the Group Executive Board (GEB) is to facilitate the 
conduct of the Group’s operations and to take the necessary 
measures, notably with regard to the setting of quantitative 
objectives and appointing and assessing the performance of executives with a wide range of responsibilities. The GEB defines 
the broad strategies and actions to be submitted to the Group 
Executive Committee for approval and ensures their implementation 
by the major business units.
At the date of this Universal Registration Document, the Group Executive Board brings together Group Management and the following 
individuals:
Aiman Ezzat Chief Executive Officer
Fernando Alvarez Head of Strategy, Development and Alliances
Jim Bailey CEO, Americas
Nive Bhagat Group Chief Financial Officer
Jean-Philippe Bol Head of Operations Transformation & Industrialization
Anirban Bose CEO, Financial Services & Asia-Pacific
Andrea Falleni CEO, Southern Europe
Cyril Garcia Head of Global Sustainability Services & Corporate Responsibility 
Franck Greverie Chief Portfolio Officer and Head of Cloud Infrastructure Services, Business Services and Insights & Data
Anne Lebel Chief Human Resources Officer
William Rozé CEO, Capgemini Engineering
Michael Schulte CEO, Northern Europe
Olivier Sevillia Chief Operating Officer
Jérôme Siméon Head of Global Industries and Group Head of Ethics

CorPor ATe GovernAnCe
Company management and administration
69
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI2Group Executive Committee
The role of the Group Executive Committee is to assist Group 
Management define broad strategies concerning the Group’s 
operating structure, the choice of priority offerings, production 
rules and organization and the implementation conditions for 
human resources management. The Group Executive Committee 
meets once a month and includes the Chief Executive Officer and 
the other Group Executive Board members.
The Group Executive Committee is the management body for 
which diversity and international diversification objectives have been set. These objectives are described below in the Section 
“Diversity policy for management bodies”.
At the date of this Universal Registration Document, the Group 
Executive Committee has 37 members, 27% of which are women 
and 59% are of non-French nationality.
At the date of this Universal Registration Document, the Group 
Executive Committee comprised the following individuals:
Aiman Ezzat Chief Executive OfficerGroup 
Management
Group 
Executive 
Board
Group 
Executive 
CommitteeFernando Alvarez Head of Strategy, Development and Alliances  
Jim Bailey CEO, Americas  
Nive Bhagat Group Chief Financial Officer
Jean-Philippe Bol Head of Operations Transformation & Industrialization  
Anirban Bose CEO, Financial Services & Asia-Pacific  
Andrea Falleni CEO, Southern Europe
Cyril Garcia Head of Global Sustainability Services & Corporate Responsibility 
Franck Greverie Chief Portfolio Officer and Head of Cloud Infrastructure 
Services, Business Services and Insights & Data  
Anne Lebel Chief Human Resources Officer  
William Rozé CEO, Capgemini Engineering 
Michael Schulte CEO, Northern Europe  
Olivier Sevillia Chief Operating Officer  
Jérôme Siméon Head of Global Industries and Group Head of Ethics  
Pascal Brier Chief Innovation Officer   
Karine Brunet CEO, Cloud Infrastructure Services  
Inma Casero Deputy Chief Human Resources Officer
Steffen Elsaesser Chief Transformation Officer   
Patrick Ferraris Head of Sales, Southern Europe
Roshan Gya CEO, Capgemini Invent   
Aruna Jayanthi Managing Director, LatAm & Canada   
Olivier Lepick Group General Secretary   
Karine Marchat Chief Financial Officer, Northern Europe
Paul Margetts Managing Director, Capgemini UK
Shobha Meera Group Chief Corporate Responsibility Officer
Niraj Parihar CEO, Insights & Data   
Maria Pernas Group General Counsel, Commercial and Contract Management  
Olivier Pfeil CEO, Business Services  
Olaf Pietschner CEO, Asia-Pacific   
Kartik Ramakrishnan Deputy CEO, Financial Services and Head of Banking & Capital Markets   
Virginie Régis Chief Marketing & Communications Officer   
Rosemary Stark Group Strategic Clients Program Leader
Shin Tonomura Deputy CEO, Asia-Pacific 
Erwoan Touche Head of Delivery & Quality
Volkmar Varnhagen COO, Capgemini Engineering
Jeroen Versteeg Chief Sales Officer
Ashwin Yardi CEO, Capgemini India

CorPor ATe GovernAnCe
Company management and administration
70
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT2Diversity policy for management bodies
Diversity is one of the three pillars of the Group’s Corporate Social 
Responsibility (CSR) strategy. In a constantly changing global 
market with a skills shortage, Capgemini believes diversity drives 
innovation and creativity. A range of diverse profiles and inclusive 
practices in our work environment are key to ensuring the Group 
remains attractive and guaranteeing its long -term success.
As part of its CSR strategy and to accompany these changes, the 
Group decided the following regarding diversity in its management 
bodies:
 —  set the objective of a progressive increase in both female 
and international representation on the Group Executive 
Committee:
 –  international representation on the Group Executive 
Committee was 58%, that is 22  out of 38  members, at 
December 31, 2023, and
 –  female representation on the Executive Committee 
reached 28.9% in 2023, –  female representation on the Executive Committee has 
increased steadily since 2016, from less than 10% in 2016 
to 24% in 2018, 26.9% in 2019 and then 27.6% in 2020, 
2021 and 2022, before reaching 28.9% in 2023. The 
mid -term objective is to reach at least 30% by 2025 and 
longer term to achieve the same percentage of women 
in the Group Executive Committee as in the Group’s 
headcount;
 —  to increase female representation in Group executive leader 
positions, representing 10% of positions with the greatest 
responsibility within the Group, and, more widely in the Vice-
President community, by similarly setting annual targets in 
this respect for the Group’s key managers; In 2018, 14% of 
Group executive leader positions were held by women. This 
percentage increased to 17% at end -2019 and 20.3% at 
end -2020 compared to a target of 20% and again to 22.4% 
at end -2021 compared to a target of 22% and plus 2 points in 
2022 to 24.4%. The target for 2023 was 26%. The percentage 
achieved at the end of 2023 was 26.2% and hereafter the 
target is 30% by 2025, based on an ambitious increase of 
2 points per annum  between 2020 and 2025.
28.9%
In 2023
(versus 10% in 2016)
30%
Target for 202526.2%
In 2023
(versus 14% in 2018)
30%
Target for 2025Women
in the Executive
CommitteeWomen
in executive
leadership  
positions   DIVERSITY FOR MANAGEMENT BODIES   
These objectives are combined with the strengthening of the Group’s 
internal policies to ensure the implementation of regular and fair 
practices supporting this strategic direction, enabling diversified 
and non -discriminatory global representation at all levels of the 
organization. A specific focus is placed on gender equality, with a 
long -term objective of progressively aligning and improving the 
percentage of female senior executives with the overall percentage 
of women in the Vice-President population.
A more detailed description of our policies and indicators for gender 
diversity in general, as well as the measures taken to increase the 
percentage of women in management positions, is presented in 
Chapter 4 of this Universal Registration Document.
As part of various duties, the Capgemini SE Board of Directors 
monitors the implementation by Group Management of this 
policy of non -discrimination and diversity, notably with regard to 
the balanced representation of men and women on the Group’s 
management bodies.The Group’s CSR strategy, which is monitored specifically since 
October 2018 by the Strategy & CSR Committee, and which includes 
diversity as a key pillar, is reviewed annually by the Board of Directors. 
In addition, new duties were entrusted to the Compensation 
Committee since 2019 to ensure the implementation of the diversity 
policy for management bodies. The various diversity quantified 
indicators are verified by an external expert as part of the Report 
on non -financial performance.
Finally, the Board of Directors included gender equality objectives 
in the variable compensation of Executive Corporate Officers. 
Since 2018, the Board of Directors has included a gender equality 
criteria in performance action plans: initially tied to the increase 
in the number of women in the Vice-President population, then 
from 2023, the increase in the percentage of women in executive 
leader positions.
(see Section 2.3 of this Universal Registration Document for more 
information on the individual objectives of the Executive Corporate 
Officers – Diversity is included in the objective concerning the roll‑out of 
the Group’s CSR strategy; and the description of the criteria applicable 
to performance shares granted in 2023 in Note 12 to the financial 
statements).

CorPor ATe GovernAnCe
Company management and administration
71
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI2216  Transactions carried out in the Company’s shares
Transactions carried out in 2023 in the Company’s shares or related financial instruments by the individuals referred to in Article 
L. 621 -18-2 of the French Financial and Monetary Code, of which the Company is aware, are as follows:
 Transaction Transaction dateAverage 
price  
(in euros)  report  
reference
Paul h ermelin 
Chairman of the Board of 
DirectorsPledge of 42,070 shares December 13, 2023 0.00 2023DD942838
Subscription of 288.8832 “Capgemini Classic” 
units (reinvestment at term of the 2018 
employee share ownership plan)December 18, 2023 193.48 2023DD943603
Megan Clarken 
DirectorPurchase of 500 shares September 29, 2023 165.87 2023DD931063
Aiman e zzat 
Chief Executive OfficerGift of 12,000 shares June 22, 2023 173.00 2023DD916680
Vesting of 25,000 performance shares  
(Plan dated 10/07/2020)October 7, 2023 0.00 2023DD932705
Subscription of 133.8840 FCPE “ESOP 
Capgemini” units (2023 employee share 
ownership plan)December 19, 2023 145.81 2023DD943761
ulrica Fearn 
DirectorPurchase of 500 shares September 22, 2023 166.66 2023DD929174
Carole Ferrand 
Chief Financial Officer
 Sale of 1,000 shares February 27, 2023 177.58 2023DD886969
Vesting of 8,000 performance shares  
(Plan dated 10/07/2020)October 7, 2023 0.00 2023DD932594
Sale of 17.6648 FCPE “ESOP Capgemini”  
units (2018 employee share ownership plan)December 18, 2023 478.34 2023DD943609
Pierre Goulaieff 
Director representing 
employeesSale of 9.6391 FCPE “ESOP Capgemini”  
units (2018 employee share ownership plan)December 18, 2023 478.34 2023DD943625
Subscription of 9.4900 FCPE “ESOP 
Capgemini” units (2023 employee share 
ownership plan)December 19, 2023 145.81 2023DD943627
hervé Jeannin 
Director representing 
employeesSale of 8.5410 FCPE “ESOP Capgemini”  
units (2018 employee share ownership plan)December 18, 2023 478.34 2023DD943605
Subscription of 8.6444 FCPE “ESOP 
Capgemini” units (2023 employee share 
ownership plan)December 19, 2023 145.81 2023DD943620
Lucia s inapi-Thomas  
Director representing  
employee shareholdersVesting of 2,500 performance shares  
(Plan dated 10/07/2020)October 7, 2023 0.00 2023DD932300
Subscription of 29.6812 FCPE “ESOP 
Capgemini” units (2023 employee share 
ownership plan)December 19, 2023 145.81 2023DD943759

CorPor ATe GovernAnCe
organization and activities of the Board of directors
72
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT222  Organization and activities of the Board of Directors
Strategy & CSR Committee
Audit & Risk Committee Board of Directors
93%
Attendance
83%
Independence115
Members
8
Meetings
2
Executive Sessions100%
Attendance100%
Independence
95%
Attendance100%
Independence93%
Attendance60%
Independence
96%
Attendance100%
Independence4
Members4
Meetings
5
Members4
Meetings6
Members5
Meetings
4
Members7
MeetingsEthics & Governance Committee
Compensation CommitteeThe Board of Directors sets the strategic direction of the Company and the Capgemini Group. It appoints the executive  
corporate officer(s) responsible for implementing this strategy, approves the financial statements, convenes the Shareholders’ 
Meetings and proposes the annual dividend. It takes decisions on the major issues concerning the operation and future  
of Capgemini, to promote sustainable value creation for its shareholders and all stak eholders.   BOARD OF DIRECTORS   
NB: Information at December 31, 2023. 1. The directors representing employees and employee shareholders are not taken into account in calculating the 
independence rate, in accordance with the provisions of the AFEP-MEDEF Code.
221  Organization of the Board of Directors
The Board of Directors is a collegiate body that collectively represents 
all shareholders and is required to act in all circumstances in the 
interests of the Company. It seeks to promote long -term value 
creation by the Company by taking into consideration the social 
and environmental issues associated with its activities.
The role of the Board of Directors
The principal role of the Board of Directors is to determine the key 
strategies of the Company’s business and the Group it controls and 
oversee their implementation. It appoints the Executive Corporate 
Officers responsible for implementing these strategies and sets 
their compensation. It approves the financial statements, convenes 
the Shareholders’ Meetings, and proposes the dividend. It conducts 
or organizes the performance of controls and verifications it 
considers appropriate and confirms in particular the existence and 
efficiency of internal control, internal audit and risk management 
systems. It ensures the diversity of its composition and that of the 
management bodies.More broadly, the Board of Directors takes decisions on the major 
issues concerning the operation and future of Capgemini, to promote 
sustainable value creation for its shareholders and all stakeholders. 
It has, in particular, the duty to monitor and steer the Group 
ESG strategy, broken down into a set of priorities and ambitious 
medium -term objectives, ensuring ESG is fully embedded in the 
Group’s main strategic orientations. Given Capgemini’s business 
as a service provider, the Board pays particular attention to the 
management of the Group’s 340,443 employees and thousands 
of managers across the globe. 
The work of the Board of Directors and its specialized committees 
in 2023 in accordance with their duties is presented in detail in 
Sections 2.2.2 and 2.2.4. Additional information on the diversity 
policy of the Board and the management bodies is presented in 
Sections 2.1.3 and 2.1.5, respectively. The internal control, risk 
management and Group compliance systems are detailed in 
Section 3.1. Detailed information on the implementation of the 
Group’s ESG policy is presented in Chapter 4 of this document.

CorPor ATe GovernAnCe
organization and activities of the Board of directors
73
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI2Operating rules – Corporate Governance framework
Capgemini SE refers to the AFEP-MEDEF Corporate Governance 
Code for listed companies (December 2022 version), in addition 
to applicable legislative and regulatory provisions.
For many years, the Capgemini SE Board of Directors has applied 
best governance practices now aligned with the recommendations 
of the AFEP-MEDEF Code and strives constantly to improve its 
governance. Accordingly, the Board has:
 —  prepared, adopted, applied and amended where useful or 
necessary the Board of d irectors’ Charter , particularly as 
part of a constant drive to improve the governance of the 
Company (see below); 
 —  set up four specialized board committees  – the Audit & 
Risk Committee, the Compensation Committee, the Ethics 
& Governance Committee, and finally the Strategy & CSR 
Committee – and given each a clearly defined role (see 
Section 2.2.4); 
 —  created the role of Lead Independent d irector  in May 2014, 
with specific prerogatives and duties to contribute to the 
balanced governance of Capgemini where the duties of 
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are grouped together 
or where the Chairman of the Board is not an Independent 
Director as defined by the AFEP-MEDEF Code (see 
Section 2.1.2 above); 
 —  adopted a system for allocating compensation  to 
Directors, whereby the majority of such compensation is 
indexed to attendance at Board and Committee meetings 
(see Section 2.3.1); 
 —  periodically reviewed the personal situation  of each 
Director in light of the definition of independence adopted 
by the AFEP-MEDEF Code (“a director is independent when 
he/she has no relationship of any sort with the Company, 
the Group or its Management, that is likely to impair his/her 
judgment”) (see Section 2.1.3); 
 —  regularly assessed its organization and operation , either 
at the time of the annual internal assessment performed 
by the Lead Independent Director or three -yearly, through 
the assessment conducted by an external consultant under 
the responsibility of the Lead Independent Director (see 
Section 2.2.3); 
 —  assessed since 2015 the effective contribution of each 
director  to the activities of the Board of Directors, at the 
time of the annual Board assessment (see Section 2.2.3).
Compliance with the AFEP ‑MEDEF Code
Capgemini SE is constantly seeking to improve its governance 
and regularly monitors its compliance with the provisions of the 
AFEP-MEDEF Code.
under the “Comply or e xplain” rule provided for in Article 
L. 22‑10‑10 of the French Commercial Code and stipulated in 
Article 28.1 of the AFEP ‑MEDEF Corporate Governance Code 
for listed companies of December 2022, the Company considers 
that its practices comply fully with the recommendations of the 
AFe P-M ede F Code.
AFeP-M edeF  
recommendations  
disregardedCapgemini practices/
explanations
None N/AIt is recalled that the AFEP-MEDEF Code was amended in 
December 2022 with the inclusion of new recommendations 
strengthening the duties of the Board Directors with regard 
to sustainable development issues. The Company considers it 
already complies with these new recommendations, including the 
presentation of the Group’s climate strategy to the Shareholders’ 
Meeting, which was performed early at the Shareholders’ Meeting 
of May 16, 2023.
Board Charters
The Charters of the Board of Directors and the specialized 
board committees are available on the Company’s website:  
https://www.capgemini.com/.
The Board Charter defines the operation and organization of the 
Board of Directors and supplements the prevailing provisions of the 
law and the bylaws. It is consistent with market recommendations 
aimed at guaranteeing compliance with fundamental Corporate 
Governance principles and particularly the AFEP-MEDEF Corporate 
Governance Code for listed companies to which the Company adheres.
When the legal form of the Company returned to that of a traditional 
limited liability company ( société anonyme ) in May 2000, a new 
Charter was debated and adopted by the Board of Directors.
The Charter has since been amended several times in line with 
changes in legal and regulatory provisions and changes specific 
to the Company and as part of the constant drive to improve 
governance, with the dual aim of facilitating the collective working 
of the Board of Directors and satisfying the Corporate Governance 
expectations of shareholders and their representatives.
The Board of Directors’ Charter was updated in February 2024 to 
take account, in particular, of Directive 2022/2464 of December 14, 
2022, the so -called Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive, 
enacted into French law by Order 2023 -1142 of December 6, 2023.
Organization of powers
The Capgemini SE Board of Directors’ Charter sets out or clarifies 
the scope of and basis for exercising the various powers entrusted 
to the Board of Directors, the four specialized board committees, 
the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Vice-Chairman and 
the Lead Independent Director.
The Board of d irectors  is a collegiate body that collectively represents 
all shareholders and is required to act in all circumstances in the 
interests of the Company, by taking into consideration the social 
and environmental issues associated with its activities.
The role of the four specialized board committees  is to study and 
document the issues that the Board has scheduled for discussion 
and to present recommendations on the subjects and sectors within 
their remit to plenary sessions of the Board. The Committees are 
consultation bodies and therefore hold no decision -making powers. 
Their members and the Chairman are appointed by the Board of 
Directors and are selected exclusively from among Capgemini SE 
Directors. They are appointed in a personal capacity and may under no 
circumstances be represented at the meetings of the Committee(s) 
to which they belong. The Board reserves the right to amend at any 
time the number and/or make -up of these Committees, as well as 
the scope of their duties. Finally, the Charters of each of the four 
Committees – and any amendments thereto which the Committees 
may later propose – must be formally approved by the Board.

CorPor ATe GovernAnCe
organization and activities of the Board of directors
74
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT2The Chairman  of the Board of Directors prepares, organizes and 
leads its work. He sets the agenda of meetings, communicates to 
Directors all information necessary to carry out their duties and 
oversees the proper operation of the Company’s bodies, the correct 
implementation of Board decisions and compliance with the rules 
of good conduct adopted by Capgemini. He chairs Shareholders’ 
Meetings to which he reports on the organization, activities and 
decisions of the Board (see Section 2.1.2 for a detailed description 
of the role and duties of the Chairman of the Board of Directors).
In the absence of the Chairman, the v ice-Chairman  chairs meetings 
of the Board of Directors and Shareholders’ Meetings.A Lead Independent d irector is appointed from among Independent 
directors  where the duties of Chairman of the Board of Directors 
and Chief Executive Officer are grouped together or, if they are 
separated, where the Chairman of the Board of Directors is not 
an Independent Director as defined by the AFEP-MEDEF Code.
The duties and composition of the specialized board committees are 
presented in Section 2.2.4. The role and prerogatives of the Lead 
Independent Director are set out in Section 2.1.2.
The Chief Executive Officer  has the most extensive powers to 
act in all circumstances in the name of the Company, subject to 
the restrictions presented in Section 2.1.2. He may be assisted in 
his duties by Chief Operating Officers .
Director ethics
The Board of Directors’ Charter sets out the main obligations of 
the Code of Business Ethics that Capgemini SE Directors undertake 
to comply with throughout their term of office.
An extract from the Code of Business Ethics is included in the 
Charter of the Board of Directors and detailed below:
“The Directors (and any other person who attends Board or 
Committee meetings) are required to treat as strictly confidential 
matters discussed during Board or Committee meetings and all 
Board or Committee decisions, as well as any information of a 
confidential nature or that is presented as such by the Chairman 
and Chief Executive Officer or Chairman (as applicable) or any other 
Director. Each Director undertakes to comply with the following 
obligations, unless he/she has informed the Chairman and Chief 
Executive Officer or Chairman (as applicable), in writing, of any 
objections to one or several of such obligations:
1  Although they are themselves shareholders, the Directors 
represent all the shareholders and are required to act 
in all circumstances in the Company’s interest. They are 
required to notify the Chairman of the Ethics & Governance 
Committee or the Board of any one -off conflict of interests or 
potential conflict of interests and to refrain from attending 
deliberations and voting on the related decision. Any Director 
who has a permanent conflict of interest is required to resign 
from the Board. Directors must inform the Chairman of 
the Ethics & Governance Committee of business dealings 
between the Company and the companies or entities with 
which they are linked, as well as any offers of appointments 
they receive (see 3  below) in order to ensure that they are 
compatible with their appointment and the functions they 
carry out within the Company.
2  Each Director undertakes to hold (or to purchase within 
six months of his/her election) at least 500  shares of the 
Company. The shares acquired to fulfill this obligation 
must be held in registered form. This obligation does not 
apply to Directors representing employees and employee 
shareholders.
3  The Directors are required to devote the necessary time and 
attention to their duties. The Directors may not hold more 
than four other appointments in French or non-French listed 
companies that are not members of the Capgemini group 
and must comply with all applicable regulations restricting 
the number of directorships held by a single person. The 
Chief Executive Officer and any Chief Operating Officers 
may not hold more than two other directorships in French 
or non-French listed companies that are not members of the 
Capgemini group; they must request the opinion of the Board 
before accepting any new appointment in a listed company. 
If the Chairman is not also the Chief Executive Officer, the Board may issue specific recommendations with regard to 
his/her status. During the term of their office at the Company, 
Directors must keep the Chairman of the Board informed of 
any offers of appointments they would like to accept in other 
French or non-French companies, and their membership of 
Board committees of these companies, as well as any change 
in their appointments or participation in these committees. 
If the duties of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are 
combined, he/she will inform the Chairman of the Ethics & 
Governance Committee. The Chairman informs the Board of 
Directors of appointments accepted.
4  The members of the Board of Directors must attend all 
meetings of the Board and all meetings of the Committees 
of which they are members, as well as all Shareholders’ 
Meetings. In its annual Universal Registration Document, the 
Company publishes Directors’ individual attendance rates at 
meetings of the Board and the Committees of which they are 
members, as well as average attendance rates.
5  The Directors are obliged to keep abreast of the Company’s 
situation and development. To this end, they may ask the 
Chairman to communicate on a timely basis all information 
that is essential to allow them to contribute effectively to 
the discussion of matters included on the agenda of the next 
Board meeting. Regarding information not available to the 
public that is obtained in their capacity, Directors are subject 
to secrecy rules extending beyond the simple requirement of 
discretion imposed by law.
6  In accordance with laws and regulations applicable to insider 
trading, as set more specifically by the French Monetary and 
Financial Code and the general regulations of the French 
Financial Markets Authority (AMF), the members of the 
Board of Directors shall refrain from:
 —  carrying out any transactions on the securities (including 
derivatives) of companies about which (and in the extent 
to which) they have privileged information by virtue of 
their position as a member of the Board of Directors of 
the Company, and 
 —  carrying out any transactions, whether direct, indirect 
or through derivatives, involving the securities of the 
Company:
 –  during a period commencing on the thirtieth calendar 
day preceding the public release of mid -year and 
full-year results and ending after the close of the 
trading day of the said public release,
 –  and during a period commencing on the fifteenth 
calendar day preceding quarterly announcements 
and ending after the close of the trading day of the 
said public release.

CorPor ATe GovernAnCe
organization and activities of the Board of directors
75
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI27  In conformity with the Monetary and Financial code and 
with the general regulations of the French Financial Markets 
Authority (AMF) each Director is required to notify the AMF and the Company by electronic means of all transactions 
carried out involving Capgemini  SE securities within three 
business days following their execution. “
The Board seeks to comply with and ensure compliance with all 
rules of good governance together with a certain number of values 
which each Board member has solemnly undertaken to respect. A 
“Code of Business Ethics” was drafted at its initiative and distributed 
to all Group employees (and is signed by all new recruits) with the 
following main objectives:
 —  ensure all Group companies comply with a certain number 
of rules of good behavior and primarily that of perfect 
integrity in the conduct of business and the management of 
employees; 
 —  implement measures stopping, fighting and sanctioning 
non -compliance with the core values of the Group, or 
prevailing laws and regulations in the relevant country; 
 —  provide an institutional framework for the actions, controls 
and dissuasive measures required to deal with the problems 
identified by these measures.
The report on the work of the Ethics & Governance Committee (see 
Section 2.2.4 below) describes in detail the actions undertaken in 
2023 by the Ethics Department and the Compliance Department 
and the implementation of the Code of Business Ethics. On its 
update at the beginning of 2019, each Director signed the new Code, 
evidencing their commitment and support (both individual and 
collective) for all the measures contained therein. Implementation 
by the Group of its Ethics & Compliance programs in 2023 is detailed 
in Section 4.2.
Director training
The Board of Directors is briefed on changes in markets, the 
competitive environment and the main challenges facing the 
Company, including with respect to Corporate Social Responsibility.
Integration of new d irectors
Capgemini ensures that Directors joining the Board receive 
training in the specific aspects of the Group, its businesses and 
activity sectors, particularly through meetings with the various 
members of Group Management. New Directors are also advised 
on the specific aspects of the Company’s Board of Directors during 
meetings with the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chief 
Executive Officer, the Lead Independent Director, the Committee 
Chairmen, the Board Secretary and members of the Group Executive 
Committee. In addition, the new members joining the Audit & Risk 
Committee receive information on the specific accounting, financial 
and operating aspects of the Company.ongoing training
Capgemini ensures that the Directors have sufficient understanding 
of the Group, its ecosystem and its challenges. The Board members 
therefore meet regularly with the members of the Group Executive 
Board during Board and Committee meetings. The Directors are 
also invited to the Group “ Rencontres ” gatherings, a recurring event 
bringing together, over several days, around 500 of the Group’s 
key managers and emerging talent. In addition, each year a Board 
meeting dedicated to strategy is held in the form of a seminar 
and invites key managers of the Group to contribute to Board 
discussions. These seminars also enable Directors to constantly 
refine their understanding of the challenges facing the Group 
through themed -based presentations and site visits.
Furthermore, the Board organizes a range of specific training 
sessions throughout the year to help Directors increase their 
knowledge of the Group (through presentations of its ecosystem, 
challenges, businesses, offerings and certain of its regions) and 
its competitive environment, as well as recent market disruption 
trends and technological developments. In 2023, presentations 
were made before or during Board of Directors’ meetings and 
at the annual strategy seminar. These primarily focused on 
the latest technology trends (generative artificial intelligence, 
quantum and new technologies in financial services), challenges 
in attracting and retaining talent, cybersecurity and the Group’s 
competitive environment. There were also more operations -based 
presentations, focusing on Group strategy in the Consumer Goods 
sector, the “Cloud Infrastructure Services” business line, the Group’s 
portfolio of offerings, Group offerings in sustainable development 
and intelligent industry, as well as the Group’s activities in the 
United States.
An in -depth presentation of the Group’s climate strategy and net 
zero program was also made to members of the Board of Directors 
in 2023, in addition to the annual meeting focusing on the roll -out 
of the Group’s CSR strategy.
In addition, the Directors representing employees or employee 
shareholders, and the Executive Corporate Officers, attend mandatory 
Group training sessions covering, in particular, anti -corruption 
measures, ethics, cybersecurity, anti -trust laws, intellectual property, 
data protection and sustainable development. The independent 
Directors indicated that they had attended training sessions as 
part of their other executive duties and, in particular, sessions on 
anti -corruption measures, ethics and sustainable development.
Finally, the Directors who so request and Directors representing 
employees regularly receive special external training, enabling them 
to obtain and perfect the knowledge and techniques necessary to 
the exercise of their duties.

CorPor ATe GovernAnCe
organization and activities of the Board of directors
76
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT2222  Activities of the Board of Directors in 2023
Board of Directors’ meetings
number of meetings and attendance rate
The Board meets at least six times a year. Meetings are convened 
by the Chairman in accordance with a schedule decided by the 
Board well in advance. This schedule may be amended during the 
year in response to unforeseen circumstances or at the request 
of more than one Director.
In 2023, the Board met 8 times  during the year (including by video 
conferencing and conference call), five times during the first -half 
and three times during the second -half.
The Board meeting focusing primarily on the Group’s strategy was 
held on June 14 and 15, 2023 in the form of a seminar.In addition, the Board held two executive sessions  chaired by 
the Lead Independent Director and attended by all the Directors 
except for the Chief Executive Officer. In addition to reviewing 
the compensation and performance of the Chief Executive Officer 
during the past year, these executive sessions also focused on 
governance issues, on the internal assessment of the Board and 
on the strategic priorities to be implemented in the context of 
setting the compensation objectives of the Chief Executive Officer 
for the coming year.
The average attendance rate  at Board meetings was 93%,  
demonstrating the involvement and availability of the Directors 
throughout the year for issues of particular importance to the 
Group. The following table presents individual attendance rates 
at meetings of the Board of Directors and the specialized board 
committees on which the Directors sit.
number of meetings of the Board of d irectors and its specialized committees in 2023 and attendance rates
 Board of  
directorsethics & 
Governance 
Committeestrategy & C sr 
CommitteeAudit & r isk 
CommitteeCompensation 
Committee
Total number of meetings 8 4 5 7 4
Average attendance rate 93% 100% 93% 96% 95%
Individual d irector attendance rates
nameBoard of  
directorsethics & 
Governance 
Committeestrategy & C sr 
CommitteeAudit & r isk 
CommitteeCompensation 
Committee
no. of 
meetings %no. of 
meetings %no. of 
meetings %no. of 
meetings %no. of 
meetings %
Paul Hermelin 8 100% - - 5 100% - - - -
Aiman Ezzat 8 100% - - 5 100% - - - -
Xiaoqun Clever (1) 3/3 100% - - - - 3/3 100% - -
Megan Clarken (2) 3/5 60% - - 1/2 50% - - - -
Ulrica Fearn (3) 3/5 60% - - - - 4/4 100% - -
Maria Ferraro 8 100% - - - - 6 86% - -
Pierre Goulaieff 8 100% - - - - - - 4 100%
Siân Herbert-Jones 8 100% 4 100% - - 7 100% - -
Hervé Jeannin 8 100% - - 5 100% - - - -
Belen Moscoso del Prado 7 88% - - - - - - 4 100%
Xavier Musca 8 100% 4 100% - - 7 100% - -
Frédéric Oudéa 8 100% 4 100% - - - - - -
Patrick Pouyanné 8 100% 4 100% - - - - 4 100%
Olivier Roussat 7 88% - - 5 100% - - - -
Tanja Rueckert (4) 2/3 67% - - 3/3 100% - - - -
Kurt Sievers 6 75% - - 4 80% - - 3 75%
Lucia Sinapi-Thomas 8 100% - - - - - - 4 100%
(1) The term of office as Director of Ms. Xiaoqun Clever expired at the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 16, 2023 and was not renewed.
(2) Ms. Megan Clarken was appointed a Director at the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 16, 2023 and a member of the Strategy & CSR Committee at that same date.
(3) Ms. Ulrica Fearn was appointed a Director at the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 16, 2023 and a member of the Audit & Risk Committee at the same date.
(4) Ms.  Tanja Rueckert, further to a change in her responsibilities within Bosch, decided to stand down from the Board of Directors, effective following the end of the 
Shareholders’ Meeting of May 16, 2023.

CorPor ATe GovernAnCe
organization and activities of the Board of directors
77
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI2organization and preparation
The Notice of meeting, sent to Directors two weeks before the 
meeting date, contains the agenda set after the Chairman of the 
Board of Directors has consulted with the Lead Independent 
Director and any Directors who proposed specific points to be 
discussed by the Board.
In accordance with the Board of Directors’ Charter, preparatory 
documentation is sent to Directors in the week before the meeting.
In addition, important press releases (signature of major contracts, 
alliances, etc.) issued by the Company together with financial 
analysts’ studies of Capgemini or the sector are regularly brought 
to the attention of Directors.Documents relating to the Board of Directors as well as the 
above -mentioned information are communicated by a secure 
platform accessible solely by Board members using an individual 
password. This platform is hosted on a server located in France. 
In 2015, this platform, which is used for Board of Directors’ and 
Committee meetings, was reviewed and modernized in response to 
wishes expressed by Directors, to make it more mobile, accessible 
from any location and even more secure.
Activities of the Board in 2023
The agenda of Board of Directors’ meetings is defined not only to 
provide Directors with an overview of the Group’s position, but also 
with regard to Group governance principles, which, pursuant to 
prevailing texts and to the Board of Directors’ Charter, presuppose 
that Board members will make decisions on specific topics.
Group strategy and  
organization, CSR Governance Finance
 —  Review of indicators monitoring 
the Group’s medium -term strategic 
direction
 —  External growth opportunities and 
analysis thereof
 —  Review of the main changes in 
markets, technology and the 
competitive environment
 —  Intelligent Industry strategy and 
sustainable development and 
generative artificial intelligence 
offering strategy
 —  Monitoring of the roll -out of the 
Group’s CSR strategy, including the 
climate strategy —  Changes in the composition of the 
Board and its Committees
 —  Preparation of the Shareholders’ 
Meeting
 —  Internal assessment of the Board
 —  Monitoring of dialogue with 
shareholders and proxy advisors
 —  Review of the Executive Corporate 
Officer succession process and the 
emergency succession process —  Budget
 —  Medium -term financial ambitions
 —  Share buyback program
 —  Financial communication
Group Performance Audit & RiskTalent management,  
diversity and compensation
 —  Group performance and activities
 —  Monitoring the “New Normal”
 —  Monitoring customer satisfaction —  2022 Company financial statements
 —  2022 consolidated financial 
statements and 2023 first -half interim 
consolidated financial statements
 —  Risk monitoring (including mapping)
 —  Internal control and Internal audit
 —  Monitoring of the Group’s various 
ethics and compliance actions —  Monitoring of Group talent 
management
 —  Diversity policy for management 
bodies
 —  Monitoring of the Group executive 
succession process excluding 
the Chief Executive Officer 
and preparation of potential 
executives
 —  Compensation of Executive 
Corporate Officers, equity ratio
 —  Performance share and free share 
grants
 —  New employee share ownership 
plan
In addition, the Board held two executive sessions in 2023 chaired 
by the Lead Independent Director and attended by all the Directors 
except for the Chief Executive Officer. In addition to reviewing the 
compensation and performance of the Chief Executive Officer 
during the past year, these executive sessions also focused on governance issues, on the internal assessment of the Board and 
on the strategic priorities to be implemented in the context of 
setting the compensation objectives of the Chief Executive Officer 
for the coming year.

CorPor ATe GovernAnCe
organization and activities of the Board of directors
78
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT2Report on the Lead Independent Director’s activities in 2023
Mr. Frédéric Oudéa was appointed as Lead Independent Director 
and Chairman of the Ethics & Governance Committee at the end 
of the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 20, 2021. Given the renewal 
of his term of office as Director at the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 19, 2022, he was renewed as Lead Independent Director and 
Chairman of the Ethics & Governance Committee at the end of 
this Meeting.
The duties of the Lead Independent Director in 2023 were as follows:
Preparation of Board of d irectors’ 
meetingsInvolvement in the preparation of Board of Directors’ meetings, particularly as concerns the 
different governance issues presented to the Board and consultation by the Chairman of the 
Board of Directors on the agendas of all Board meetings.
Internal assessment of the Board 
of d irectors and its specialized 
committeesConduct, at the end of 2023 and the beginning of 2024, of an internal assessment of the 
Board and its specialized committees for 2023 with the aid of a questionnaire and individual 
meetings with each of the members of the Board (see Section 2.2.3).
Prevention of conflicts of interest/
classification of Independent 
directorsStay informed of business relations between the Company and companies or structures with 
which Directors are related and of any directorship proposals received by Directors, in order 
to avoid any potential situations of conflict of interest.
Annual review of Director independence criteria.
Composition of the Board of  
directorsConduct, in the context of the Ethics & Governance Committee, of the search process for 
candidates upstream of the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 16, 2023 which appointed two 
new Directors.
Launch of discussions on the composition of the Board in preparation of the Shareholders’ 
Meeting of May 16, 2024.
Communication with shareholders Meetings held jointly with the Chairman of the Board of Directors, with several institutional 
investors to present Capgemini’s governance principles, compensation policies, or the 
ESG policy as part of the Company’s dialogue with its shareholders; reporting on these 
discussions to the Ethics & Governance Committee, whose members include the Chairman 
of the Compensation Committee, and to the Board of Directors.
Chair of two executive sessions 
(meetings held without the presence 
of the Chief Executive Officer)Chair of two executive sessions of the Board in 2023 which focused on assessing the performance 
of the Executive Corporate Officer in 2023 and the strategic priorities to be implemented 
in the context of setting the variable compensation objectives of the Executive Corporate 
Officer, the internal assessment of the Board and governance.
In addition, Mr. Oudéa, as Lead Independent Director, reported 
to shareholders of the Company on his activities and on the 
activities of the Board and its specialized committees in 2022 at 
the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 16, 2023, in accordance with 
the Board of Directors’ Charter.Financial authorizations
A summary table of current delegations of authority granted by 
Shareholders’ Meetings to the Board of Directors to perform share 
capital increases and detailing utilizations of these delegations in 
2023, is presented in Section 6.1.2 of this Universal Registration 
Document.
223  Assessment of the Board of Directors
2022 external assessment: conclusions and actions implemented in 2023
In accordance with the three -year frequency recommended by the 
AFEP-MEDEF Code, a formal assessment of the activities of the 
Board of Directors and its specialized committees was performed 
at the end of 2022 with the assistance of an external service 
provider and under the responsibility of the Lead Independent 
Director, who guaranteed the confidentiality of opinions expressed, 
the impartiality of analyses and the consultant’s ability to freely 
express his recommendations. The review assessed changes in the 
activities of the Board since the last external assessment in 2019.
To ensure independence and avoid any conflict of interest, it was 
decided to appoint a firm that was not otherwise involved in the recruitment of Directors for the Group. The assessment was 
therefore conducted by Mr. Jean-Philippe Saint-Geours, a partner 
with the firm Leaders Trust International, which has conducted 
the three -year assessments since 2008, helping to put in context 
any recent changes or changes still required and facilitating open 
dialogue with members of the Board of Directors and management.
Following this assessment, which was presented in detail in the 
Company’s 2022 Universal Registration Document, the measures 
below were implemented in 2023 for the three priorities approved 
by the Board of Directors:

CorPor ATe GovernAnCe
organization and activities of the Board of directors
79
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI22023 Priorities Actions implemented
oversight of strategic objectives
 —  Continued increased involvement of the 
Board in the definition and oversight 
of strategic priorities, primarily by 
implementing monitoring indicators —  The strategic seminar, held on June  14 and 15, 2023, offered the occasion 
to present and discuss current strategic projects and review the indicators 
monitoring the Group’s medium -term strategic direction approved by the Board 
of Directors in December  2022. Several presentations were also performed 
throughout 2023 to enable Directors to monitor the implementation of 
medium -term strategic priorities.
Talent management
 —  Continued oversight of the development 
and retention of Group talent —  A presentation of the actions implemented to attract and retain talent was 
communicated to Directors in the context of the strategic seminar of June 14 
and 15, 2023 enabling a constructive question and answer session with Directors. 
In addition, the Board performed an annual review of talent management and 
the diversity policy for management bodies.
sustainable d evelopment
 —  Greater oversight of the Group’s 
sustainability offering strategy with 
clients; continued oversight of the 
Group’s CSR strategy and particularly 
the climate strategy —  A detailed presentation of the Group’s sustainability offering was made to the 
strategic seminar of June 14 and 15, 2023, focusing on the services proposed to 
Group clients to accompany them in their decarbonation approach.
In addition, in May 2023, the Directors attended a training session on the Group’s 
climate strategy and the net zero program, in addition to the annual meeting 
focusing on the roll -out of the Group’s CSR strategy.
2023 internal assessment: conclusions and  
priorities for 2024
The Lead Independent Director’s internal assessment of performance 
in 2023 focused particularly on the composition of the Board of 
Directors, its activities and the individual contribution of Directors.
A questionnaire was sent to all Directors at the end of 2023. This 
questionnaire covered both the composition and activities of 
the Board of Directors and the activities of the specialized board 
committees on which they sit. In addition, it offered the opportunity 
to take stock of actions implemented in 2023 following the 2022 
external assessment.
The Lead Independent Director met individually with each member of 
the Board of Directors, with the guarantee of complete anonymity, 
to discuss the comments raised in the questionnaire and the 
effective contribution of each director to the Board’s activities. 
The Lead Independent Director provided individual feedback on 
these assessments of the effective contribution of each Director.
During this assessment, the Directors considered the composition 
of the Board of Directors to be balanced with regard to the 
Group’s challenges and the objectives set by the Board for the 
period 2022- 2026.
The Directors expressed their satisfaction with the activities of 
the Board and its committees and particularly the adoption of 
English as the working language of the Board, the quality of the 
documents communicated upstream of meetings and the level of 
information provided on strategy, performance monitoring and the 
Group’s competition drivers. The assessment also confirmed the 
highly collective approach to the Board’s work and the openness 
which characterizes its discussions.The organization of ongoing training courses was appreciated, 
as was the focus during Board meetings on generative artificial 
intelligence and the Group’s sustainability offering. Finally, the 
increased number of executive sessions outside Board meetings 
was welcomed.
Certain areas for improvement were identified, particularly concerning 
the oversight of acquisitions and their integration during Board 
meetings in addition to the oversight performed by the Strategy 
& CSR Committee. The Board also wished to continue its increased 
oversight of the Group’s medium -term strategic priorities and of 
Talent management and succession plans.
Following this assessment, the Board of Directors set the following 
priorities for 2024:
 —  oversight of medium -term strategic direction
Continued increased involvement of the Board in the definition and 
oversight of strategic priorities, both during the annual strategic 
seminar and at Board meetings.
 —  oversight of acquisitions
 Mor e in-depth oversight of acquisitions and their integration at 
Board level, in addition to the work performed by the Strategy & 
CSR Committee.
 —  Talent management
Even greater involvement of the Ethics & Governance Committee and 
the Board of Directors in talent management and succession plan 
issues. Continuation of meetings with Group operating managers 
during Board meetings or training sessions.

CorPor ATe GovernAnCe
organization and activities of the Board of directors
80
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT2224  Role and composition of the four specialized board committees
The Audit & Risk Committee
96%
Attendance100%
Independence7
Meetings
Members4
Women3
N.B. All figures are up to date at December 31, 2023.
Composition at December 31, 2023
Members Attendance rate
Xavier Musca (Chairman) (1) 100%
Ulrica Fearn (1) (2) 100%
Maria Ferraro (1) 86%
Siân Herbert-Jones (1) 100%
 (1) Independent.
 (2) Ms.  Ulrica Fearn was appointed a member of the Audit & Risk Committee 
following her appointment as a Director by the Shareholders’ Meeting of 
May 16, 2023.
Committee duties
The duties of the Audit Committee were changed on December 7, 
2016 to strengthen the monitoring of risk management and include 
the impacts of the European statutory audit reform. The Committee 
name was also changed to the Audit & Risk Committee.
These changes in the Committee’s duties followed concerns 
expressed by Directors to improve risk monitoring by associating 
the Board of Directors and the Audit Committee.
In accordance with Article L. 823 -19 of the French Commercial Code, 
the French Financial Markets Authority (AMF) recommendation of 
July 22, 2010 and best market practice, the duties of the Audit & 
Risk Committee in 2023 fell into three categories.
Firstly, the Audit & Risk Committee monitors issues concerning the 
preparation and control of financial and accounting information. It 
monitors the financial information preparation process and, where 
applicable, suggests recommendations to guarantee its integrity. 
It examines the draft annual and half -year consolidated financial 
statements of the Group, the annual accounts of Capgemini SE 
and the management presentation of the main accounting options 
adopted and the Company’s material off -balance sheet commitments.
Following the amendment of its Charter in March 2019, it ensures that 
there is a rigorous process for preparing the Group’s non -financial 
information and reviews the draft statement on non -financial 
performance.
Secondly, the Audit & Risk Committee ensures the existence 
and efficiency of internal control systems, internal audit and the 
management of major risks to which the Group is exposed in the 
course of its business (such as financial, legal, operating, employee 
and environmental risks and the resulting measures implemented). 
Following the strengthening of these risk monitoring duties, the 
Committee must notably review the major risks to which the Group 
may be exposed at least once annually, in particular through a 
review of the risk mapping prepared and updated by the Group 
Management Risk Committee.Finally, the Committee is responsible for monitoring the statutory 
audit of the annual and half -year consolidated financial statements 
of the Group and the annual accounts of the Company, ensuring the 
independence of the Statutory auditors and generally monitoring 
the conduct of their engagements.
Where it considers it useful or necessary, the Audit & Risk Committee 
may be assisted by experts appointed for this purpose.
During its meeting of February 13, 2024, the Board of Directors 
appointed the Audit & Risk Committee as the specialized Board 
Committee responsible for duties relating to sustainability reporting, 
following the enactment into French law of Directive 2022/2464 
of December 14, 2022, known as the Corporate Sustainability 
Reporting Directive. These duties apply from January 1, 2024.
Composition and participation
At December 31, 2023, the Committee has four Directors, all of 
whom are independent: Mr. Xavier Musca  (Chairman), Ms. Ulrica 
Fearn , Ms. Maria Ferraro  and Ms. Siân Herbert ‑Jones .
Ms. Xiaoqun Clever  was a member of the Committee until May 16, 
2023. She attended all Committee meetings during the period 
January 1 to May 16, 2023.
Through their professional careers, Audit & Risk Committee members 
have amassed the necessary accounting and financial expertise 
to perform their duties. Mr. Xavier Musca acquired considerable 
expertise in the French and international financial and banking 
sectors throughout his career in the French civil service, ministerial 
offices and the private sector. Ms. Siân Herbert-Jones was Chief 
Financial Officer of Sodexo from 2001 to 2016. Ms. Maria Ferraro’s 
career as Chief Financial Officer in international groups across a 
range of sectors, including the Intelligent Industry sector, allows 
her to contribute financial expertise combined with business 
knowledge. Ms. Ulrica Fearn has acquired throughout her career 
strong financial expertise as Chief Financial Officer of leading global 
companies in the energy, telecommunications and Consumer Goods 
& Retail sectors, all of which are industries leveraging technology 
as part of their sustainable transformation journey.
The Committee met seven times in 2023, with an average attendance 
rate of 96%.
Committee activities in 2023
The Committee reviewed the annual accounts of Capgemini SE and 
the consolidated financial statements of the Group for the year 
ended December 31, 2022, the condensed interim consolidated 
financial statements for the half -year ended June 30, 2023 and 
the 2023 budget.
With regard to the 2022 consolidated financial statements, the 
Committee monitored the valuation of goodwill, the provision 
for pensions and other post -employment benefits, the analysis 
of other operating income and expenses, the application of IFRIC 
(IFRS Interpretation Committee) interpretations, particularly on 
SaaS-type contracts, the adoption of the ESEF electronic reporting 
format, the change in tax rates and the application of IFRS 2.
The Statutory auditors reported to the Committee on the quality 
of the accounting monitoring of projects and the good control 
and anticipation of the accounts closing process.
As part of its risk management oversight activities, the Committee 
took due note of the annual risk mapping update based on interviews 
conducted with around fifty Group managers as well as employees 
treating specific risk issues. This work again confirmed fourteen 
critical risks for which action plans have been drawn up, monitored 
by the risk owners and reviewed by the Group Management Risk 
Committee. The owners of some critical risks (cyber risks; market 
slow -down; country risk/political violence and natural disasters; 
risks related to personal safety and security; non -compliance with 
laws and/or adverse changes in regulations) presented a report 
to the Audit & Risk Committee on the management of these risks.

CorPor ATe GovernAnCe
organization and activities of the Board of directors
81
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI2The Audit & Risk Committee also interviewed:
 —  the Internal Audit Director, questioning him on working 
methods, planning, areas of intervention, resources, the 
conclusions of audits carried out during the year and the 
follow -up of recommendations; 
 —  the Delivery Director (Production/Methods and Support), 
questioning him in particular on the impact on the operating 
accounts of major contracts that are separately monitored 
and on the leading trends and causes underlying project 
deviations; 
 —  the Director in charge of pre -sales risk management, 
questioning him on the activities of the Group Review Board 
during the period and the terms and conditions of major 
commercial proposals; 
 —  the Manager in charge of implementing the European 
Taxonomy regulation, who was questioned on the approach 
adopted and initial results.
The Committee reviewed the draft non -financial performance 
statement and met with representatives of the independent third 
party responsible for issuing a report on this statement. It reviewed 
the methodology adopted for implementing the Taxonomy regulation 
and the methodology underlying the non -financial performance 
statement. The Committee also interviewed the Manager in charge 
of implementing the CSRD Directive in sustainability reports to 
understand the approach adopted by the Group.
As each year, the Committee planned to interview the Tax Director 
on major upcoming changes in the environment where the Group 
operates and on the tax policy.
The Committee met with the Statutory auditors and the Independent 
Third Party during a meeting held without the presence of 
executives, focusing on the audit approach, key audit matters, the 
audit scope, its planning, materiality thresholds and the internal 
control review, as well the audit approach for the non -financial 
performance statement.
The Committee also review a specific presentation on managing 
provisions for pensions and other post -employment benefits.
Finally, the Committee took note of the non -audit services approved 
during the fiscal year and performed by the external auditors.
The Compensation Committee
95%
Attendance100%(1)
Independence4
Meetings
Members5
Women2
N.B. All figures are up to date at December 31, 2023.
(1) The Directors representing employees and employee shareholders are not 
taken into account in calculating the independence rate, in accordance with the 
provisions of the AFEP-MEDEF Code.
Composition at December 31, 2023
Members Attendance rate
Patrick Pouyanné (Chairman) (1) 100%
Pierre Goulaieff 100%
Belen Moscoso del Prado (1) 100%
Kurt Sievers (1) 75%
Lucia Sinapi-Thomas 100%
(1) Independent.Committee duties
On October 8, 2014, the Selection & Compensation Committee 
changed its name to the “Compensation Committee” and now 
concentrates exclusively on setting the compensation of Executive 
Corporate Officers and defining compensation policies for Group 
executives. The Committee has several duties set out in its Charter.
Firstly, it must present proposals to the Board of Directors on the 
fixed and variable compensation of Executive Corporate Officers and, 
with regards to the variable portion, and where appropriate, propose 
a detailed list of individual objectives (quantitative and qualitative), 
enabling an assessment of performance and the calculation of the 
variable compensation component(s). The Committee reviews the 
information presented to shareholders for the vote on Executive 
Corporate Officer compensation (so -called “Say on Pay”) and is 
consulted on financial terms and conditions in the event of the 
appointment or departure of an Executive Corporate Officer. It 
also reviews the information presented to shareholders for the 
vote on Director compensation and proposes allocation rules and 
a total compensation amount to the Board of Directors.
The Compensation Committee must be informed of the compensation 
policies adopted by Capgemini group companies in the management 
of senior executive careers and the application of these policies 
with respect to the Group’s medium and long -term strategy 
presented to the Board of Directors. The Committee must also be 
informed annually by Group Management of the (fixed and variable) 
compensation of Executive Committee members.
Following the amendment of its Charter in March 2019, the Committee 
ensures that Group Management implements a diversity policy 
and objectives for management bodies. To this end, the work of 
the Strategy & CSR Committee is invaluable.
Finally, the Committee reviews the various schemes enabling 
senior executives to better share in the Group’s profits (long -term 
incentive instruments and particularly performance share grants, 
Group savings schemes, etc.) and proposes to the Board of Directors 
the incentive instruments it considers appropriate and capable of 
being implemented in all (or certain) Capgemini group companies.
Composition and participation
At December 31, 2023, this Committee has five Directors, all of whom 
are independent with the exception of the Directors representing 
employees and employee shareholders (who are not taken into 
account in calculating the independence rate, in accordance with 
the AFEP-MEDEF Code):
Mr. Patrick Pouyanné  (Chairman), Mr. Pierre Goulaieff  (Director 
representing employees), Ms. Belen Moscoso del Prado, Mr. Kurt 
sievers  and Ms. Lucia Sinapi ‑Thomas  (Director representing 
employee shareholders).
This Committee met four times in 2023, with an average attendance 
rate of 95%.
Committee activities in 2023
In accordance with the Committee’s remit, it ensured throughout 
2023 the consistency of the Group’s senior executive compensation 
policy. Its Chairman regularly reported on the Committee’s work and 
presented recommendations to the Board of Directors concerning 
the following areas:
 —  the consistency of the general compensation policy of the 
Group and its subsidiaries; 
 —  the compensation of the Chairman of the Board of Directors; 
 —  the compensation of the Executive Corporate Officer and 
a review of the compensation of members of the Executive 
Committee. These recommendations focused at the 
beginning of the year on:

CorPor ATe GovernAnCe
organization and activities of the Board of directors
82
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT2 –  an appraisal of the individual performance of the 
Executive Corporate Officer compared with the 
objectives set at the beginning of the previous year,
 –  the calculation of the variable component of this 
compensation paid after the Shareholders’ Meeting vote 
for the Executive Corporate Officer,
 –  determination of the fixed compensation and theoretical 
variable component for the following year and any 
change in the structure of the Executive Corporate 
Officer’s compensation with a view to the renewal of his 
term of office,
 –  selecting and setting objectives to be used for the 
current year as a basis for defining the calculation of the 
actual variable component due.
The Committee reviewed the principle and means of granting 
shares subject to performance and/or presence conditions and 
ensured the consistency of performance conditions tied to financial 
indicators, as well as non -financial indicators in line with the 
Company’s Corporate Social Responsibility policy. It also studied 
the principle and means of granting shares subject to performance 
and/or presence conditions to certain managers proposed to the 
Board of Directors for agreement on November 6, 2023, as well as 
the specific grant to employees of recently acquired companies.
The Committee also monitored the Group employee share ownership 
plans and was regularly advised of the potential impact of regulatory 
changes on Executive Corporate Officer compensation packages.
Finally, the Committee monitored the diversity policy and objectives 
of the Group’s management bodies.
The Ethics & Governance Committee
100%
Attendance100%
Independence4
Meetings
Members4
Women1
N.B. All figures are up to date at December 31, 2023.
Composition at December 31, 2023
Members Attendance rate
Frédéric Oudéa (Chairman) (1) 100%
Siân Herbert-Jones (1) 100%
Xavier Musca (1) 100%
Patrick Pouyanné (1)  100%
(1) Independent.
Committee duties
Since October 8, 2014, the roles of the Ethics & Governance 
Committee now include not only Executive Corporate Officer 
selection and succession plans and the proposal of new Directors 
to ensure the balanced composition of the Board but also Group 
senior executive selection and succession plans.
The main remit of this Committee (created in July 2006 by decision 
of the Board) is to verify that the Group’s seven core values (Honesty, 
Boldness, Trust, Freedom, Team Spirit, Modesty and Fun) are 
correctly applied and adhered to, defended and promoted by the 
Group’s corporate officers, senior management and employees in 
all of its businesses and in all subsidiaries under its control, in all 
internal and external communications – including advertising – and 
in all other acts undertaken in the Group’s name.It is also tasked more generally with overseeing the application of 
best Corporate Governance practice within Capgemini SE and its 
subsidiaries. The Ethics & Governance Committee is responsible 
for all matters relating to the selection, appraisal and annual 
independence review of the Company’s Directors. It draws the 
attention of the Chairman and the Board of Directors to any 
potential situations of conflict of interest it has identified between 
a Director and the Company or its Group or between Directors. 
It ensures the implementation of a corruption and influence 
peddling prevention and detection system and oversees Group 
compliance with rules and conventions on human rights and 
fundamental freedoms in the exercise of its activities. It must be 
ready to implement the measures necessary should the need to 
replace the Chief Executive Officer suddenly arise. It must handle 
and propose to the Board any changes it considers appropriate or 
relevant to the Board’s activities and composition, in particular as 
part of its diversity policy (co -opting a new Director or replacing a 
resigning director, increasing the proportion of female Directors, 
diversity of profiles and expertise of Directors, etc.), or to the 
governance structure currently in place within the Group. The 
Committee is briefed on succession plans for key operating and 
functional managers of the Group. It is also informed of the policy 
for the identification, development and retention of high potential 
executives. The Chairman of the Board of Directors and the Chief 
Executive Officer are involved in the Committee’s work and attend 
meetings, except where deliberations directly concern them. The 
Committee must be consulted by Group Management prior to any 
appointment to the Executive Committee.
Composition and participation
At December 31, 2023, the Committee has four Directors, all of 
whom are independent: Mr. Frédéric o udéa  (Chairman), Ms. Siân 
herbert-Jones , Mr. Xavier Musca  and Mr. Patrick Pouyanné .
It is recalled that the Charter of the Board of Directors provides 
that the duties of Lead Independent Director be conferred by the 
Board on the Chairman of the Ethics & Governance Committee.
This Committee met four times in 2023, with an average attendance 
rate of 100%.
Committee activities in 2023
The activities of the Ethics & Governance Committee focused on 
the following issues in 2023:
Governance
The Ethics & Governance Committee:
 —  in preparing the Shareholders’ Meeting of May  16, 2023, 
recommended the candidacy of Ms.  Megan Clarken and 
Ms. Ulrica Fearn to the Board of Directors; 
 —  proposed the appointment by the Board of Directors, at 
the end of the Shareholders’ Meeting of May  16, 2023, 
of Ms.  Megan Clarken as a member of the Strategy & CSR 
Committee (to replace Ms.  Tanja Rueckert) and Ms.  Ulrica 
Fearn as a member of the Audit & Risk Committee (to replace 
Ms. Xiaoqun Clever); 
 —  was briefed on the implementation of the internal charter 
on regulated agreements and the classification of ordinary 
agreements performed at arm’s length and conducted a 
preliminary review of the agreement classification procedure 
as part of the annual review of classification criteria by the 
Board of Directors; 
 —  was briefed on the process implemented by Group 
Management for the succession of Executive Corporate 
Officers and reviewed the emergency succession plan for 
Executive Corporate Officers drafted in March 2021;

CorPor ATe GovernAnCe
organization and activities of the Board of directors
83
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI2 —  reviewed the procedures implemented by Group 
Management to manage succession plans for Executive 
Management (Group Executive Board and Group Executive 
Committee) to ensure talent able to assume the highest 
operational and functional responsibilities in the Group has 
been identified, while remaining open to the addition of new 
talent; 
 —  monitored the dialogue between the Company and its 
shareholders and proxy advisors in preparation of the 2023 
Shareholders’ Meeting and prepared the governance issues 
presented to the Board and then to the Shareholders’ 
Meeting of May 16, 2023; 
 —  was briefed on the meetings held by the Lead Independent 
Director and Chairman of the Board with several institutional 
investors to present Capgemini’s governance principles; 
 —  debated several times the changes in and composition of the 
specialized board committees, for proposal to the Board of 
Directors; 
 —  under the responsibility of its Chairman, the Lead 
Independent Director, was briefed on the internal 
assessment of the composition and activities of the Board 
and its specialized committees performed at the end of 2023 
in respect of 2023, for proposal to the Board of Directors; 
 —  deliberated the Board of Directors’ diversity policy and its 
implementation during 2023, for proposal to the Board of 
Directors; 
 —  deliberated the independence of Directors and the absence 
of conflicts of interest in preparation of the 2022 Universal 
Registration Document, for proposal to the Board of 
Directors; 
 —  was briefed on the conclusions and observations of the 
High Committee for Corporate Governance ( Haut Comité du 
Gouvernement d’Entreprise ) and the French Financial Markets 
Authority (AMF) in their respective annual reports on 
Corporate Governance; 
 —  reviewed the governance Section of the Board of Directors’ 
report, prepared in accordance with the last paragraph of 
Article L. 225 -37, Article L. 225 -37-4 and Article L. 22 -10-10 of 
the French Commercial Code; 
 —  launched discussions on the composition of the Board for 
the period 2024 -2026.
Ethics & Compliance
The Committee also interviewed the Ethics Director who submitted 
a report to the Committee presenting a strengthened governance 
structure through the creation of a Group Ethics Committee, its 
guidelines and related annual training sessions, alerts reported 
during 2023 to the SpeakUp  ethics helpline, situations of conflict of 
interest self -reported via Declare , the Group’s conflict -of-interest 
management tool, a summary of feedback from the monthly 
survey on the ethics culture in the Company ( Ethics Pulse ), to which 
over 240,000 Group employees across 45 countries responded 
in 2023, progress with human rights actions and internal and 
external communication initiatives throughout the year. This 
report highlighted that Capgemini was recognized as “ One of the 
World’s Most Ethical Companies®” for the eleventh year in a row by 
the American Institute, Ethisphere. The report also presented the 
main ethics and Human Rights actions scheduled for 2024.
In addition, the Ethics & Governance Committee was informed 
by the Compliance Officer of measures taken in 2023 under the 
anti -corruption program deployed by the Group, as well as the 
conclusions of internal controls performed in 2023 on the correct 
application of this program, the training situation and the priorities for 2024. The Committee was also informed of the main actions 
implemented under the duty of care plan and the priorities for 
2024 and reviewed the environmental risks mapping, in line with 
health and safety and human rights issues identified in the Group 
procurement chain.
Finally, the Internal Audit Director presented to the Committee 
the internal audit conclusions on the good understanding and 
application of Group anti -corruption and ethics programs.
The Strategy & CSR Committee
93%
Attendance60%(1)
Independence5
Meetings
Members6
Women1
N.B. All figures are up to date at December 31, 2023.
(1) The Directors representing employees and employee shareholders are not 
taken into account in calculating the independence rate, in accordance with the 
provisions of the AFEP-MEDEF Code.
Composition at December 31, 2023
Members Attendance rate
Paul Hermelin (Chairman) 100%
Megan Clarken (1) (2) 50%
Aiman Ezzat 100%
Hervé Jeannin 100%
Olivier Roussat (1) (2) 100%
Kurt Sievers (1) 80%
(1) Independent.
(2) Ms. Megan Clarken was appointed a member of the Strategy & CSR Committee 
following her appointment as a Director by the Shareholders’ Meeting of 
May 16, 2023 to replace Ms. Tanja Rueckert.
Committee duties
At the end of 2018, the Board of Directors entrusted the Strategy & 
Investment Committee, subsequently renamed the Strategy & CSR 
Committee, with a specific duty relating to the monitoring of the 
Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) strategy, ensuring 
consistency in the consideration of social and environmental 
aspects in the Group’s main strategic orientations.
The role of this Committee is to:
 —  study in -depth the strategic options open to the Group to 
ensure its continued growth, improve its profitability and 
maintain its independence to enrich Board discussions; 
 —  study the Group’s mid- and long -term strategic focus, considering 
the social and environmental issues associated with its 
activities and major technological and competitive trends 
and developments; 
 —  determine the amount of investment required to implement 
each of these possible strategies; 
 —  monitor material investments, alliances and divestments; 
 —  examine the Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) 
strategy, monitor annually the results of this strategy and 
issue any opinions or recommendations.
More generally, the Committee identifies and deliberates on any 
direction or initiative considered relevant to the Group’s future, 
provided it does not compromise the smooth running of operations 
and guarantees operating and financial stability.

CorPor ATe GovernAnCe
organization and activities of the Board of directors
84
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT2Composition and participation
At December 31, 2023, the Committee has six Directors, three of 
whom are independent:
Mr. Paul h ermelin  (Chairman), Ms. Megan Clarken  (Independent 
Director), Mr. Aiman e zzat  (Chief Executive Officer), Mr. h ervé 
Jeannin  (Director representing employees), Mr. olivier r oussat  
(Independent Director) and Mr. Kurt s ievers  (Independent Director).
Ms. Tanja Rueckert  was a member of the Committee until May 16, 
2023. She attended all Committee meetings during the period 
January 1 to May 16, 2023.
This Committee met five times in 2023, with an average attendance 
rate of 93%.
Committee activities in 2023
To prepare the Board of Directors’ decisions, the Committee:
 —  maintained an ongoing dialogue with the Chief Executive 
Officer on acquisition opportunities exceeding the delegation 
granted to him, to prepare the Board deliberations; 
 —  analyzed the position of several major markets to consider 
possible acquisitions; 
 —  reviewed the approach to integrating acquisitions and 
studied progress with the integration of recent acquisitions 
and particularly their oversight and value creation; 
 —  discussed with the Chief Executive Officer the preparation 
of the Board of Directors’ strategy seminar in June  2023 
and issued recommendations aimed at proposing an agenda 
covering the impact of geopolitical developments and the 
position in the American market and focusing on emerging 
technologies and the skills shortage;  —  discussed other major strategic files with Group Management 
and particularly the Group’s role in contributing to the 
development of a “ Cloud de Confiance ”; 
 —  analyzed the offering portfolio, the partnership strategy and 
the competitive environment based on presentations by the 
Chief Executive Officer; 
 —  reviewed and suggested clarification on the range of 
indicators proposed and intended to measure the Group’s 
progress on strategic priorities; 
 —  established with the Chief Executive Officer a plan and 
schedule for issues to be discussed by the Committee, 
following the performance assessment of the Board of 
Directors in 2022, which highlighted the need for greater 
visibility on the Committee’s work agenda; 
 —  reviewed, as part of its oversight role for corporate social and 
environmental responsibility (CSR) actions, the Group’s CSR 
strategy, founded on three pillars, diversity and inclusion, 
digital inclusion and environmental sustainability and 
reported to the Board; 
 —  analyzed, in particular, the announced carbon reduction 
strategy to achieve carbon neutrality , with 2025, 2030 and 
2040 targets, and the various CSR objectives (reducing 
carbon emissions and supporting digital inclusion) proposed 
for members of the Executive Committee and the Chief 
Executive Officer. These objectives were submitted to and 
approved by the Board when setting the Chief Executive 
Officer’s compensation.
Where authority was delegated to the Chief Executive Officer, the 
Committee was informed throughout the year of acquisitions in 
progress and verified the consistency of these acquisitions with 
the priorities defined by the Board of Directors.

CorPor ATe GovernAnCe
Compensation of corporate officers
85
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI223  Compensation of corporate officers
231  Directors’ compensation
2311  Directors’ compensation policy
Total compensation cap
In compensation for their participation in Board and Committee 
meetings, the Company was authorized by the Shareholders’ 
Meeting of May 19, 2022 to pay total compensation to Directors 
of up to €1,700,000 per year.
The authorization given by the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 19, 2022, 
to increase the total maximum amount of Directors’ compensation 
enabled the Board of Directors to continue the objective of the 
international diversification of the Board to reflect changes in 
Capgemini’s geographies and businesses, the diversity of profiles 
and the expertise represented, but also to involve competent and 
strongly committed Directors. This increase in the total amount 
also enabled the change in the compensation package of the 
Chairman of the Board of Directors’ aimed at removing his fixed 
compensation and solely granting Director’s compensation. This 
change led to an overall cost reduction for the Company.
Allocation rules
The method of allocating compensation to Directors was reviewed 
in 2014, following the external assessment of the Board of Directors 
performed in 2013. This review sought to take better account 
of the increasing workload of Committee Chairmen, encourage 
good attendance at meetings and consider the travel time for 
Directors resident outside France. These rules have remained 
globally unchanged except the addition of a fixed annual amount 
for the Chairman of the Board as set out in Section 2.3.2.3 below. In 
addition, in order to improve its appeal to international Directors, 
the Board decided to enhance Directors’ compensation. Accordingly, 
Directors’ compensation since 2023 fiscal year is now allocated on 
the following basis:
 — payment of a fixed annual amount to each Director of 
€16,500, with the exception of the Chairman of the Board; 
 — payment of a fixed annual amount to the Chairman of the 
Board of €250,000; 
 — payment of a fixed amount for each attendance at an official 
meeting of the Board of €5,500; 
 — the compensation for chairing the specialized board 
committees was set with regard to the specific role of each 
Committee and the ongoing and increase workload required 
of Chairmen, set as follows:
 –  €50,000 for the lead Independent Director and Chairman 
of the Ethics & Governance Committee, –  €50,000 for the Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors,
 –  €40,000 for the Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee,
 –  €30,000 for the Chairmen of the Compensation 
Committee and the Strategy & CSR Committee; 
 — payment of a fixed amount for each attendance at a meeting 
of one of the four specialized board committees of €3,000 
(including Committee Chairmen as of 2024 fiscal year); 
 — payment of an additional amount per Board or Committee 
meeting to take account of the travel time of Directors 
resident outside Europe of €5,500; 
 — payment of an additional amount per Board or Committee 
meeting to take account of the travel time of Directors 
resident outside France but in Europe (this additional amount 
is not allocated to Directors representing employees, whose 
travel costs are covered by other means) of:
 –  €3,000 for attendance at Board meetings,
 –  €2,200 for attendance at Committee meetings; 
 — compensation is calculated in two parts, at the end of the 
first six months and at the end of the year and is paid in two 
installments; 
 — under the compensation scale for a given fiscal year, if 
circumstances require the Company to hold a greater than 
scheduled number of meetings, resulting in the maximum 
amount authorized by the Shareholders’ Meeting being 
exceeded, these fixed amounts would be reduced in order 
to comply with the maximum amount authorized by the 
Shareholders’ Meeting.
2312  Directors’ compensation in respect of 2023
In application of the above principles, total compensation of 
€1,418,950 is due to Directors in respect of 2023, representing 83.5% 
of the maximum amount authorized by the Combined Shareholders’ 
Meeting. After deduction of French and foreign withholding tax, 
a net amount of €1,070,172 was paid in respect of 2023.
It is recalled that Mr. Paul Hermelin voluntarily waived his right to 
collect the compensation that should have been paid to him as a 
Director of Capgemini SE in respect of 2022 (as he had done for 
the past previous eleven years) up to the end of May 2022 when 
the Shareholders’ Meeting authorized the change in the Directors’ 
compensation policy and that Mr. Aiman Ezzat has also waived 
his right to collect compensation as a Director of Capgemini SE 
since May 20, 2020. Mr. Frédéric Oudéa has also waived his right 
to collect compensation for his duties as Vice-Chairman of the 
Board of Directors since his appointment.

CorPor ATe GovernAnCe
Compensation of corporate officers
86
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT2Compensation due in respect of one fiscal year and paid during another fiscal year is detailed below:
(in euros) Amounts granted in 
respect of 2022Amounts granted in 
respect of 2023Gross amount  
paid in 2022Gross amount  
paid in 2023
Megan Clarken** n/a 41,500 n/a 13,750
Xiaoqun Clever** 86,750 35,375 85,050 74,075
Laurence Dors 41,092 n/a 89,592 n/a
Aiman Ezzat (waiver) (waiver) (waiver) (waiver)
Ulrica Fearn** n/a 48,500 n/a 5,750
Maria Ferraro** 47,000 86,700 17,300 85,650
Pierre Goulaieff** 51,425 72,500 24,475 68,700
Siân Herbert-Jones 72,050 93,500 67,850 88,950
Paul Hermelin*** 179,767 324,000 27,567 319,700
Hervé Jeannin* 61,050 75,500 62,600 71,700
Kevin Masters n/a n/a 31,000 n/a
Belen Moscoso del Prado 58,300 67,000 62,350 63,200
Xavier Musca 97,300 112,500 96,850 108,200
Frédéric Oudéa 97,300 110,500 96,850 107,200
Patrick Pouyanné 82,883 102,500 75,433 97,700
Olivier Roussat 38,500 70,000 11,550 71,700
Tanja Rueckert** 73,050 26,875 71,600 56,825
Kurt Sievers** 79,900 79,500 81,850 85,300
Lucia Sinapi-Thomas 58,300 72,500 59,850 68,700
TOTAL 1,124,667 1,418,950 961,767 1,387,100
* Compensation of this beneficiary for his duties as Director is paid to his French trade union organization.
** As required by law, the Company deducted withholding tax on the amounts paid to these non -resident beneficiaries. A 30% deduction at source for income tax and CSG/
CRDS social security contributions was also applied to amounts paid to beneficiaries tax -resident in France.
*** Directors’ compensation paid from June 2022 following the approval by the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 19, 2022 of the new compensation policy (compensation waived 
for the prior period).
The non -executive Directors did not receive any compensation 
other than the above compensation, with the exception of the 
Directors representing either employee shareholders (Ms. Lucia 
Sinapi-Thomas) or Group employees (Messrs. Pierre Goulaieff  
and Hervé Jeannin), who hold employment contracts with their 
respective Group legal entities in respect of their local functions, 
that are unrelated to their corporate office in the Company.other compensation
A breakdown of compensation paid in 2023 or granted in respect 
of fiscal year 2023 to Executive Corporate Officers is presented 
in Section 2.3.3.
There are no shareholder agreements or pacts in force.
232  Executive Corporate Officer compensation policy
Since May 20, 2020, the Group governance structure comprises a 
Chief Executive Officer (Mr. Aiman Ezzat) and a Chairman of the 
Board of Directors (Mr. Paul Hermelin).
Accordingly, two compensation policies for executive and non-
Executive Corporate Officers were presented to the May 2023 
Shareholders’ Meeting for vote, given the differences in the nature 
of the offices. Compensation components paid or granted in respect 
of 2023 were defined based on these policies approved by the 
Shareholders’ Meeting of May 16, 2023 and break down as follows:
 — the compensation policy for the Chief Executive Officer 
(Executive Corporate Officer), office held by Mr. Aiman Ezzat 
since the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 20, 2020; 
 — the compensation policy for the Chairman of the Board 
(non-Executive Corporate Officer), office held by Mr. Paul 
Hermelin since the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 20, 2020 as 
applied since June 1, 2022.
For 2024, given the separation of the duties of Chairman of the 
Board (non-Executive Corporate Officer) and Chief Executive 
Officer (Executive Corporate Officer), the executive and non-
Executive Corporate Officer compensation policy, in addition to 
the Directors’ compensation policy, will comprise: — the compensation policy for the Chief Executive Officer 
(Executive Corporate Officer), office held by Mr. Aiman Ezzat 
since the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 20, 2020; 
 — the compensation policy for the Chairman of the Board 
(non-Executive Corporate Officer), office held by Mr. Paul 
Hermelin since the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 20, 2020.
2321  General Principles
Compliance and transparency
The procedures for setting Executive Corporate Officer compensation 
comply with the recommendations set out in the most recent version 
of the AFEP-MEDEF Code. Compensation components and structure 
are determined in accordance with the recommendations of this 
Code, whether fixed or variable compensation, the grant of equity 
instruments or supplementary pension benefits and are in line with 
existing Group practices and market rules. These principles are 
regularly reviewed and discussed by the Compensation Committee 
which submits a report on its work and its resulting proposals to 
the Board of Directors for approval. Compensation components 
are disclosed in detail as part of the Say on Pay procedure.

CorPor ATe GovernAnCe
Compensation of corporate officers
87
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI2Competitiveness and consistency
The Compensation Committee refers in particular to comparative 
studies to ensure the consistency  and competitiveness  of both 
the compensation level and structure and calculation methods with 
market practice. The Committee’s recommendations take account 
of Executive Management compensation levels and components in 
CAC 40 companies as well as observed practice in leading French and 
foreign Group competitors in the IT services and consulting sector. 
Compensation publication practice varies significantly between 
the countries and legal structures of competitors, in particular in 
the case of private partnerships. CAC 40 companies are therefore 
the most relevant and most transparent benchmark, but additional 
analyses take account of the international and competitive aspects 
of the sector and geographies in which the Company operates.
Balance and performance
When performing comparisons with French companies of comparable 
size and ambition, the Compensation Committee ensures that 
Capgemini’s practices are in line with the best practices of CAC 40 
companies in terms of both the clarity and consistency of methods 
applied. The Group participates regularly in comparative studies 
of the main French companies carried out by specialist firms. 
Accordingly, a study was commissioned to assist with setting the 
compensation level of the Chairman of the Board, following the 
end of the management hand -over phase. Alike, as it was done 
to help setting the compensation level of the Chief Executive 
Officer for its first term of office in 2020, a study has been again 
commissioned from an international firm, to assist the Board in 
setting the proposed compensation structure in light of the renewal 
of the Chief Executive Officer’s term of office. The Compensation 
Committee also ensures that the respective proportions of fixed 
and variable components and share grants are balanced, in line 
with market practices, linked to the Company’s performance 
and aligned to Group strategy .
Consistency with the Company’s interests and 
contribution to the commercial strategy
The Executive Corporate Officer compensation policy is consistent 
with the Company’s interests and contributes to the Company’s 
commercial strategy and long -term success in so far as it:
 — is determined according to clear and quantifiable criteria, 
linked to the Group’s strategy; 
 — includes incentives that reflect the Group’s strategic focus on 
long -term sustainable growth; 
 — provides for variable and long -term compensation linked in 
part to CSR criteria; 
 — aligns the interests of Executive Corporate Officers with 
those of the Company and shareholders.
Conflict of interest
The Board of Directors has implemented a conflict of interest 
management procedure under which Directors are required to 
notify the Chairman of the Ethics & Governance Committee of 
any one -off or potential conflicts of interests and to refrain from 
attending deliberations and voting on the related decision (see 
Section 2.1.3 on the absence of conflicts of interest).
Furthermore, the Board of Directors deliberates on Executive 
Corporate Officers’ compensation in their absence.2322  Compensation policy – Chief Executive 
Officer (Executive Corporate Officer)
Together with the general principles set out above, the items 
presented below comply with Article L. 22 -10-8 of the French 
Commercial Code and represent the Board of Directors’ report 
on the Chief Executive Officer’s compensation policy that will 
be presented for approval to shareholders at the Shareholders’ 
Meeting of May 16, 2024.
Compensation structure
The Chief Executive Officer’s compensation policy seeks a  
balance between short -term and long -term performance to 
ensure the sustainable development of the Company and aims 
for consistency between changes in overall compensation and 
Company performance trends.
Procedures for setting fixed and variable 
compensation
The procedures for setting Executive Corporate Officer compensation 
in respect of fiscal year Y are adopted by the Board of Directors’ 
meeting in Y held to approve the financial statements for fiscal year 
Y-1. The Board of Directors therefore approves at the beginning 
of the year for the year in progress:
 —  Fixed component
Fixed compensation seeks to reward the responsibilities associated 
with the office. It takes into account the complexity of the position’s 
duties and responsibilities and the skills, expertise and experience 
required as well as the competitive position.
The fixed component is not reviewed annually , but after several 
years in accordance with the AFEP-MEDEF Code. In this respect, 
the fixed component of the Chief Executive Officer has not been 
modified for the whole duration of his first term of office, i.e. since 
2020. Considering that the Board is proposing the renewal of the 
term of office of Mr. Ezzat as Director to the Shareholders Meeting 
on May 16, 2024 and intends to confirm him in his duties as Chief 
Executive Officer following the Shareholders Meeting, the Board 
considers that a term of office renewal is an appropriate time to 
review the fixed compensation of Mr. Ezzat for his second mandate 
covering the period until May 2028.
When setting the revised fixed component of the Chief Executive 
Officer’s compensation, the Board of Directors took into consideration 
the following elements based on the recommendation of the 
Compensation Committee:
 — the significant evolution of the Group’s performance during 
the current term of office of Mr. Ezzat as Chief Executive 
Officer, with a revenue growth of 59% and a margin increase 
of 72% at the end of 2023 vs. 2019;
 — the result of a market benchmark conducted by an 
international firm primarily covering CAC40 companies, 
this analysis covering as well information from international 
companies belonging to our sector such as Infosys, Wipro, 
Accenture, CGI, Also Holding, Cognizant or ASML;
 — the fact that fixed compensation of the Chief Executive 
Officer has not been increased since the start of his current 
term of office in May  2020 and that in application of the 
AFEP-MEDEF Code to which the Company refers, the revised 
compensation will be set for the duration of his new term of 
office;
 — that the proposed increase of the Chief Executive Officer’s 
fixed compensation would remain consistent with the 
average compensation increases over 25%, applied to 
employees across the Company during the period 2020 to 
2024.

CorPor ATe GovernAnCe
Compensation of corporate officers
88
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT2The fixed compensation is paid in 12 equal monthly installments.
 —  Theoretical variable compensation: components and 
calculation method
Taking into account market practice for Executive Corporate 
Officers and willing to increase the weight of the performance 
based compensation to ensure that most part of the compensation 
is performance related, the Board of Directors has set the 
variable compensation principles of the Chief Executive Officer’s 
compensation in alignment with the prevailing structure in place, 
and has defined the performance indicators underlying the variable 
compensation calculation, as well as the strategic individual 
performance objectives for the year.
The variable compensation breaks down as follows, being specified 
that it is related primarily to quantifiable performance indicators  
such as:
 —  The variable part is calculated for 60% of the fixed 
compensation on financial performance indicators.  The 
Board of Directors decided in 2020 to increase the weight 
of the financial component to 60% so as to increase the 
impact of financial performance indicators on determining 
the variable compensation. The calculation structure and 
weighting are stable over time and the level of attainment 
of these indicators is determined based on a comparison of 
actual audited and budgeted Group consolidated results. 
The performance indicators are adopted in line with the 
key indicators presented regularly to the market and are 
also stable over time. This component varies in line with its 
theoretical level, between nil and a ceiling of 120% of the 
fixed compensation and is calculated using a formula that 
accelerates the weighted performance of financial indicators 
upwards or downwards, under a risk/reward approach. This 
component is therefore nil if the weighted performance of 
financial indicators is less than or equal to 75% and can reach 
twice the theoretical amount if the weighted performance is 
greater than or equal to 125%, varying on a straight -line basis 
between these two limits.
 —  The variable part is based on non‑financial quantifiable 
performance indicators for 20% of the fixed compensation , 
based on the achievement of strategic objectives set at the 
beginning of the year by the Board of Directors. This variable 
part may go up to 30% of the fixed compensation in case of 
overperformance, assuming that the stretched targets set by 
the Board are reached.
 —  The variable part is also based on qualitative personal 
objectives , which may represent up to 30% of the fixed 
compensation based on the assessment of the achievement 
of the strategic objectives set at the beginning of the year 
by the Board.
 —  As in previous years the non -financial objectives are 
capped and may not represent more than 60% of the fixed 
compensation.The Board of Directors therefore ensured that the objectives set 
could be objectively assessed and measured, such that, the major 
part of the total variable compensation for the year is based on 
quantitative data . Objectives must also be clearly tied to the roll 
out of the Group’s strategic priorities approved by the Board of 
Directors as essential to the delivery of the long -term strategic plan.
Therefore, as a result of this system, the variable part and the fixed 
plus variable compensation of the Chief Executive Officer are both 
capped and the variable part for the year could be set at zero and 
may not represent more than 180% of the fixed compensation, 
according to the respective weightings of the quantified and purely 
qualitative objectives set for the year.
The level of achievement of objectives and the amount of 
variable compensation components are decided, pursuant to the 
recommendations of the Compensation Committee, by the Board of 
Directors’ meeting in Y+1 held to approve the financial statements 
for fiscal year Y. The Committee meets on several occasions 
before the Board of Directors’ meeting to assess the percentage 
attainment of Executive Corporate Officer objectives. A Committee 
meeting was held at the end of 2023 and another in early 2024 to 
assess this performance before the Board of Directors’ meeting 
which decides the level of achievement by Executive Corporate 
Officer of its objectives. Objective achievement percentages are 
communicated annually for each criterion.
In the event of an appointment or departure during a fiscal year, 
the variable component is calculated based on the percentage 
defined in this way, pro rata to the period the office is exercised 
during the relevant fiscal year.
The Board of Directors may, if necessary, in exceptional circumstances 
and on a temporary basis and in accordance with the Company’s 
interest, exercise its discretionary power concerning the application 
of the Executive Corporate Director’s compensation policy, in 
accordance with the provisions of Article L. 22 -10-8 III paragraph 2 of 
the French Commercial Code. Exceptional circumstances may arise, 
in particular, from a major event affecting the markets, the economy 
and/or the Group’s business sector. Any such adjustment of the 
performance criteria of the variable annual compensation, which 
may increase or decrease, would be decided by the Board on the 
basis of a reasoned proposal from the Compensation Committee, 
in strict compliance with the ceiling defined in the compensation 
policy submitted to a vote of the shareholders and with due regard 
to maintaining the alignment of the interests of the Company and 
its shareholders with those of the Executive Corporate Director. 
Adjusted variable compensation components will be communicated 
to shareholders in a duly reasoned statement and will remain subject 
to a subsequent vote by shareholders at the General Meeting.
Variable compensation is paid following approval by the Shareholders’ 
Meeting in Y+1 of compensation components for fiscal year Y for 
all Executive Corporate Officers.
Summary table of the range of the fixed and variable compensation for the Chief Executive Officer
Fixed compensation structure, base 100 Min Max
Gross fixed compensation 100 100
Annual variable compensation – financial objectives 0 120
Annual variable compensation – non financial objectives 0 60
Multi -year variable compensation 0 0
Total 100 280
% variable/fixed 0% 180%

CorPor ATe GovernAnCe
Compensation of corporate officers
89
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI2Capgemini share -based incentive policy procedures
The Group stopped granting stock options in 2009 and since then 
grants performance shares in accordance with the following principles:
 — subject to performance and presence conditions: 
performance shares granted to Executive Corporate 
Officers are subject to the same conditions of presence and 
performance as applicable to other Group beneficiaries 
and all shares are subject to performance and presence 
conditions ; 
 — the associated conditions are ambitious , as demonstrated 
by the effective share grant percentages for the nine fully 
vested plans of respectively 42.3% for the 2009 plan, 56.7% 
for the 2010 plan, 87.9% for the 2012 plan, 83.9% for the 
2013 plan, 82.5% for the 2014 and 2015 plans, 70.8% for the 
2016 plan, 64.7% for the 2017 plan, 77.8% for the 2018 plan 
and 82% for the 2019 plan of the number of shares initially 
granted; 
100%
80%
60%
40%
20%
2009 Plan42.3
2010 Plan56.7
2012 Plan87.9% OF SHARES DELIVERED 
2013 Plan83.9
2014 Plan82.5
2015 Plan82.5
2016 Plan70.8
2017 Plan64.7
2018 Plan77.8
2019 Plan82.0
 — the performance conditions  include internal (comprising 
since 2018 CSR conditions) and external performance 
conditions in accordance with the AMF recommendation, 
and are calculated over a 3 -year period to ensure sustainable 
performance and to align Executive Corporate Officer, 
shareholders and stakeholders interests in the long run;  — limited volume : the volume of shares granted to Executive 
Corporate Officers pursuant to the resolutions presented 
to shareholders’ vote is limited (maximum of 10% of shares 
available for grant set in the most recent resolution voted 
on May  16, 2023). Overall, in 2023, the volume of shares 
granted to Executive Corporate Officers was well within 
the cap set in the resolution, with total percentages of 
0.94% of the maximum authorized amount and 1.04% of 
the amount effectively granted, compared with 1.02% and 
1.05% respectively in 2022, 0.91% and 1.01% respectively in 
2021, 1.23% and 1.32% respectively in 2020, 3.78% and 4.17% 
respectively in 2019 and an average in recent years of 2.12% 
and 2.18%; 
 — cap: the IF rs value of shares granted aims not to exceed 
around 100% of the theoretical annual cash compensation 
for a given year; 
 — obligation to hold shares : in accordance with legal 
provisions, the Board of Directors must set the number of 
vested shares granted in connection to their office, that 
Executive Corporate Officers must continue to hold until the 
termination of their office.
The Board of Directors decided that vested performance shares 
representing at least 50% of shares must be retained, where the 
amount of shares held, valued at the share price on the vesting 
date, represents less than a threshold expressed as a multiple of 
the theoretical annual compensation (fixed and variable). Once 
this threshold is reached, the obligation to retain performance 
shares only applies to one third of shares vested. Finally, the Board 
of Directors decided on February 14, 2018 that if the number of 
shares valued on the vesting date represents more than twice 
the above threshold, then the obligation to hold shares that vest 
as a result of these grants would be set at 5% of vested shares. 
Executive Corporate Officers are therefore entitled to freely sell 
their shares as long as i) the value of their shares remains above 
the latter threshold and ii) at least 5% of each share grant is held 
until the termination of their office as Executive Corporate Officer.
The threshold under which 50% of vested shares must be held 
until termination of his office has been set for the Chief Executive 
Officer at one year of his theoretical annual compensation (fixed 
and variable), applicable on the vesting date.
If the value of the portfolio held at the vesting date is: < one year’s fixed  
and variable 
theoretical 
compensation> one year’s fixed  
and variable 
theoretical 
compensation and  
< two years’ fixed and 
variable theoretical 
compensation> two years’ fixed and 
variable theoretical 
compensation
Obligation to hold vested shares until the later of  
the end of the term of office and the plan date50% 33.3% 5% subject to 
remaining above the 
two -year threshold
 — Ban on hedging : share hedging transactions are prohibited 
before the end of the mandatory holding period. This 
ban is included in the grant plan rules and applies to all 
beneficiaries, who must acknowledge in writing that they 
will comply with the plan rules. The ban applies since the first 
performance share grant plan in 2009. In accordance with the 
AFEP-MEDEF Code recommendations, the Chief Executive 
Officer gave a formal commitment to comply with this ban.
 — Effective presence required, subject to three exceptions : 
effective presence on the vesting date is required for shares 
to vest as per the terms of the plan rules with the exception 
of death, disability or retirement. In the case of retirement, shares still vest on scheduled dates as per plan rules and 
conditions. These presence conditions and exceptions have 
applied since the first performance share grant plan. In other 
circumstances, the shares are forfeited.
 — Grants in the same periods : in accordance with the 
recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF Code, performance 
shares are now granted in the same calendar periods and are 
decided by either the Board of Directors’ meeting at the end 
of July or the following meeting. This has been the case since 
2015, as grants were performed in July in 2015 and 2016 and 
have been performed in October from 2017 to 2022 and in 
November in 2023.

CorPor ATe GovernAnCe
Compensation of corporate officers
90
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT2 — If regulatory developments or any other circumstances make 
the use of share -based incentive instruments restrictive, 
impossible or economically inappropriate, use of a special 
purpose long -term incentive mechanism with the same 
terms, criteria and ceilings could be envisaged.
One‑off award
A one -off award, if any, would only be applicable in case of an 
external hiring of an executive, with the need to buy out rights that 
would be lost following this hiring decision. In such case, the award 
would be proportionate to the lost amounts and implementation 
and payment of this compensation would be subject to approval 
by Shareholders’ Meeting pursuant to Article L. 22 -10-8 of the 
French Commercial Code.
Termination clauses
During the meeting of March 11, 2020, the Board of Directors 
considered that it was in the Company’s interest to maintain the 
existing Chief Operating Officer scheme for the Chief Executive 
Officer, in strict compliance with the AFEP-MEDEF Code. During its 
meeting of February 13, 2024, the Board again considered it was in 
the Company’s interest to maintain this system, which encompasses:
 —  A non -compete obligation
Subject to compliance with the non -competition obligation for a 
period of 12 months as from the date of termination of his corporate 
office, the Chief Executive Officer may be entitled to a compensation 
payment equal to half of his theoretical gross compensation (fixed 
plus variable) if objectives are attained, applicable on the date of 
termination of his duties as Chief Executive Officer. The Board of 
Directors can decide to lift this non -compete obligation on the 
departure of the Chief Executive Officer. This compensation is 
spread over the application period of the clause and will not be paid if the Chief Executive Officer exercises his right to retire or 
is over 65 years old at the end of his term of office.
 —  Capped severance pay subject to performance conditions 
due in the event of termination of the duties of Chief 
Executive Officer
A severance indemnity will only be due to the Chief Executive 
Officer at the end of his term of office in case of a forced departure 
in connection with (i) a merger or spin -off affecting the Company, 
(ii) a change of control within the meaning of Article L. 233 -3 of the 
French Commercial Code, or (iii) a significant change in strategy 
of the Company or a fundamental disagreement with the Board 
of Directors. However, no severance pay shall be due if the Chief 
Executive Officer leaves the Company on his own initiative, is entitled 
to exercise his right to retire or is 65 years old on the termination 
of his term of office or in the event of gross negligence or serious 
misconduct. The Board ensured strict performance conditions 
were attached to severance pay in the event of termination of 
the corporate office, based on the weighted performance of the 
financial indicators applicable to the variable component of the 
Chief Executive Officer’s compensation (tied to Group performance 
indicators and consolidated results), observed annually during the 
last two full fiscal years preceding the termination of duties, with 
a heavier weighting applied to the final year (60% compared with 
40% for the preceding year).
The Board of Directors will confirm the effective attainment of 
these performance criteria.
In compliance with the recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF 
Code, the aggregate amount of (i) severance pay effectively paid, 
and (ii) any indemnity likely to be paid in consideration for the 
non -compete undertaking, may not exceed a maximum amount 
equal to twice the applicable theoretical annual compensation 
(fixed plus variable) at the date of termination of the duties of 
Chief Executive Officer.
severance pay on 
cessation of the 
corporate office based  
on performance during 
the previous 2 years
(payable solely in the event 
of forced departure)+Indemnities on the potential application of  
a non -compete clause on cessation of  
the corporate office
equal to half the theoretical gross compensation (fixed + 
variable) applicable at the date of cessation of the duties 
of Chief Executive Officer (i.e.  ≤ 1 year)≤Absolute cap of 2 years 
theoretical annual 
compensation  
(fixed + variable)
applicable at the date of 
cessation of duties
directors’ compensation
Within the framework of the Directors’ compensation policy 
presented in Section 2.3.1, the Chief Executive Officer is eligible 
to receive remuneration for serving as a Director. Mr. Aiman Ezzat 
has however informed the Board of his decision to waive his right 
to compensation for his duties as a Director.
Benefits in kind
In addition to the above -mentioned items, the structure of the 
Chief Executive Officer’s compensation may also comprise the 
provision of a Company car, under prevailing conditions within the 
existing plan in place in France. The Chief Executive Officer has 
not however subscribed to this offer. The Chief Executive Officer 
is covered by collective healthcare and welfare plans applicable 
within the Company.
Long savings plan
On the proposal of the Compensation Committee, the Board of 
Directors decided that the Chief Executive Officer can benefit 
from the long savings mechanism. This plan has been implemented 
since 2016 to remain attractive for senior executives while being 
able to offer a long -term incentive vehicle with better economic conditions for both the Company and the beneficiaries of the 
previous plan which was closed to new entrants at the end of 2015 
with pension rights frozen. This mechanism is more aligned with 
developments in the market and the European legal framework 
(portability, performance conditions, agility) and seeks to cover 
the absence of contributions and therefore pension rights above 
eight times the French annual social security ceiling (PASS). The 
plan consists in the payment of an annual allowance, at least half 
of which is allocated to a third -party body in the context of a 
supplementary optional insurance plan (Article 82), with the rest 
of the cash allowance being kept by the beneficiary, considering 
the immediate taxation upon entry of this mechanism.
This allowance is made under the following conditions:
 — the allowance is subject to the attainment of performance 
conditions; 
 — the amount of the allowance if all objectives are attained is 
equal to 40% of the annual fixed compensation; it will vary 
according to the unflexed weighted performance of the 
financial performance indicators used for the calculation of 
the variable component and it is therefore capped  according 
to the reference formula;

CorPor ATe GovernAnCe
Compensation of corporate officers
91
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI2 — the payment of the allowance in respect of year Y, subject to 
the satisfaction of the performance conditions for year Y, is 
deferred as follows:
 –  50% of the amount calculated is paid in year Y+1,
 –  50% of the amount calculated is paid in year Y+2, provided 
the Chief Executive Officer is present in the Group at 
June 30 of year Y+2.
The calculation procedure and the objectives related to this 
allowance will be set each year by the Board of Directors, on the 
proposal of the Compensation Committee. The Board of Directors 
decided that the calculation procedure, the Company’s internal 
performance indicators taken into account in the calculation of the 
variable component linked to the financial performance indicators, 
and the weighting associated with each indicator for fiscal year 
2024, will be set by the Board of Directors, on the proposal of the 
Compensation Committee, during the meeting held to approve 
the results for the year ended December 31, 2023. The calculation 
is performed over the effective duration of the current term of 
office in a given year in the event of entry into or termination of 
duties during the year.
No supplementary pension benefits
The Chief Executive Officer is not covered by a supplementary 
pension plan.
Application of the compensation policy to Mr  Aiman 
Ezzat, Chief Executive Officer of Capgemini SE
 —  Fixed component
On the recommendation of the Compensation Committee, 
considering:
 — the significant evolution of the Group’s performance during 
the current term of office of Mr. Ezzat as Chief Executive 
Officer, with a revenue growth of 59% and a margin increase 
of 72% at the end of 2023 vs. 2019;
 — the result of a market benchmark conducted by an 
international firm, primarily covering CAC40 companies, the 
analysis providing as well, information from international 
companies belonging to our sector such as Infosys, Wipro, 
Accenture, CGI, Also Holding, Cognizant or ASML;
 — the fact that fixed compensation of the Chief Executive 
Officer has not been increased since the start of his current 
term of office in May  2020 and that in application of the 
AFEP MEDEF Code to which the Company refers, the revised compensation will be set for the duration of his new term of 
office;
 — that the proposed increase of the Chief Executive Officer’s 
fixed compensation would remain consistent with the 
average compensation increases over 25%, applied to 
employees during the period 2020 to 2024;
 — the Board of Directors decided to position Mr. Aiman Ezzat’s 
theoretical fixed compensation, unchanged since 2020, for 
his renewed duties as Chief Executive Officer in fiscal year 
2024 at €1,300,000, payable monthly pro rata to his term of 
office in the fiscal year. Besides, the Board confirmed that 
this revised compensation will be kept unchanged for the 
renewed term of office.
 —  variable component
In alignment with the procedure described above in regard to 
the variable part, it is set primarily on the basis of quantifiable 
performance indicators.
Financial indicators
The variable part set on financial indicators represents 60% of 
the fixed compensation when budgeted targets are reached. The 
composition and relative weighting of these financial performance 
indicators for 2024 (as since 2013) are:
 — growth for 30% (Group revenues); 
 — operating profitability for 30% (Group operating margin rate); 
 — cash generation for 20% (Group organic free cash flow); 
 — shareholders return for 20% (net profit before taxes).
Non‑financial performance objectives
The variable part is based on non -financial performance objectives 
and on qualitative personal objectives set by the Board of Directors 
for the Chief Executive Officer for 2024.
The part based on non‑financial performance  objectives represents 
20% of the fixed compensation, assuming targets set for the two 
equally weighted objectives are achieved. The objectives are aligned 
with the CSR strategy in relation to our ESG objectives, with one 
objective related to gender diversity and one objective related 
to the growth of our portfolio of sustainability related offerings.
The part based on qualitative personal objectives  is built around 
three equally weighted objectives covering i) talent attractiveness, 
ii) strategic partnering with clients and iii) evolution of the Portfolio 
of strategic offerings. These objectives are measured by specific 
KPIs in support of the annual evaluation each indicator being 
capped at 10% of the fixed compensation.
Financial and Individual performance objectives set by the Board of Directors for the Chief Executive Officer for 2024 are:
TalentClient
partnerPortfolio 
of oﬀers
Financial objectives Non-ﬁnancial objectives20% 20% 30% 30% 50% 50%Amount of
the free 
cash ﬂow Pre-tax
net proﬁt
objectiveOperating
margin rate
objectiveRevenue
objective CSR strategy
As the annual fixed compensation is €1,300,000, the amount applicable for the long savings plan was set at €520,000 for 2024.

CorPor ATe GovernAnCe
Compensation of corporate officers
92
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT22024 annual compensation target structure
80.0%
Performance-based
compensation
  
50%
Performance Share20.0%
Fixed compensation
30.0%
Variable compensationLong-term Annual   CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER   
2323  Compensation policy – Chairman of the 
Board of Directors, applicable for 2024
Together with the general principles set out above, the items 
presented below comply with Article L. 22 -10-8 of the French 
Commercial Code and represent the Board of Directors’ report on 
the Chairman of the Board of Directors’ compensation policy that 
will be presented for approval to shareholders at the Shareholders’ 
Meeting of May 16, 2024.
Compensation structure
In compliance with the recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF 
Code, the Chairman of the Board of Directors’ compensation policy 
solely comprises Directors’ compensation in accordance with the 
procedures detailed in Section 2.3.1, it being noted that Mr. Paul 
Hermelin exercised his retirement rights from June 1, 2022.The compensation structure therefore excludes  the payment to 
the Chairman of the Board of Directors of:
 —  fixed compensation; 
 —  annual or deferred variable compensation; 
 —  share -based instruments; 
 —  exceptional compensation; 
 —  severance pay.
directors’ compensation
Under the Directors’ compensation policy presented in Section 2.3.1, the 
Chairman of the Board is eligible to receive Directors’ compensation. 
His compensation is determined in strict compliance with the rules 
set out in Section 2.3.1 which provide for a compensation for the 
Chairman of the Board of Directors of €250,000 payable on a 
time -apportioned basis, and compensation for attendance at Board 
meetings, representing total compensation positioned by the Board 
in the first quartile for non -executive Chairman compensation.
233  Compensation paid in 2023 or granted in respect of 2023 to  
Executive Corporate Officers
2331  2023 compensation of the Chief Executive 
Officer: Mr. Aiman Ezzat
The general principles described in Section 2.3.2.1, the compensation 
policy set out in Section 2.3.2.2, and the summary table in 
Section 2.3.3.4 represent the Board of Directors’ report to shareholders established pursuant to the provisions of Article L. 22 -10-8 of the 
French Commercial Code on the principles and criteria governing 
the Chief Executive Officer’s compensation. These principles and 
criteria are subject to the approval of the Combined Shareholders’ 
Meeting of May 16, 2024 (for more information, see Chapter 7 of 
this Universal Registration Document).

CorPor ATe GovernAnCe
Compensation of corporate officers
93
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI2(gross amount) Compensation for 2022 Compensation for 2023 
Aiman e zzat,
Chief Executive OfficerPaid in  
2022Granted  
in 2022,  
paid in  
2023Granted  
in 2022,  
paid in  
2024 Total 2022Paid in 
2023 Granted  
in 2023, 
paid in 
2024 Granted  
in 2023, 
paid in 
2025 Total  
2023 
Fixed compensation 1,000,000 - -1,000,000 1,000,000 - - 1,000,000 
Annual variable compensation - 1,112,320 -1,112,320 - 1,020,770 - 1,020,770 
Multi -year variable 
compensation - 207,360 207,360 414,720 - 200,620 200,620 401,240 
Exceptional compensation - - - - - - - - 
Compensation for duties as  
a Director - - - - - - - - 
Benefits in kind - - - - - - - - 
Total compensation paid or 
granted in respect of the 
fiscal year 1,000,000 1,319,680 207,360 2,527,040 1,000,000 1,221,390 200,620 2,422,010 
In addition, the value of performance shares granted during the fiscal year and valued as per the IFRS rules on the grant date is reported 
below:
(gross amount) Compensation for 2022 Compensation for 2023 
Aiman e zzat,
Chief Executive OfficerGranted in  
2022Total  
2022Granted in  
2023 Total  
2023 
Value of multi -year variable 
compensation granted in 
respect of the fiscal year - - - - 
Value of options granted during 
the fiscal year - - - - 
Value of performance shares 
granted during the fiscal year 2,386,273 2,386,273 2,398,199 2,398,199 
TOTAL GRANTED - 2,386,273 - 2,398,199 
TOTAL ‑ 4,913,313 ‑ 4,820,209 
Fixed41%€2,422,010Variable
performance
related59%
€2,398,199Comprising the IFRS valuation of 
19,500 performance sharesOther compensationDirector compensation
Voluntary waiver
Benﬁts in kind
€0Fixed and variable compensatione (cash)
Non-compete clause
€0
Termination beneﬁts
€0Multi-year compensation
€0
Pursuant to Say on Pay rules and the most recent revised AFEP- 
MEDEF Code with which Capgemini complies, the compensation of 
Executive Corporate Officers paid during the fiscal year or granted 
in respect of the fiscal year then ended must be presented to the Shareholders’ Meeting for vote. The following table summarizes 
the 2023 compensation components subject to shareholders’ vote 
pursuant to the Say on Pay policy.

CorPor ATe GovernAnCe
Compensation of corporate officers
94
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT2Compensation components paid in 2023 or granted in respect of 2023 to Mr. Aiman e zzat,  
Chief Executive Officer, and subject to shareholder vote
 Amount or 
accounting value 
subject to vote Presentation
Fixed 
compensation€1,000,000
(paid in 2023)The gross fixed compensation of €1,000,000 for fiscal year 2023 was approved unchanged 
by the Board of Directors on March 16, 2023, at the recommendation of the Compensation 
Committee. It represents 50% of the total theoretical fixed and variable compensation if 
objectives are attained and is reviewed at long intervals in accordance with the AFEP-MEDEF 
Code. This amount was proposed following the appointment of Mr. Aiman Ezzat as Chief 
Executive Officer following the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 20, 2020.
Annual variable 
compensation
 
 €1,020,770
(paid in 2024 in 
respect of 2023)
 
 During the Board of Directors’ meeting of February 13, 2024, the Board of Directors, based 
on the audited and approved accounts and at the recommendation of the Compensation 
Committee, assessed the amount of Mr. Aiman Ezzat’s variable compensation for fiscal year 
2023. The full -year target amount of this variable compensation if objectives are attained is 
€1,000,000, i.e. 50% of his theoretical fixed and variable compensation or 100% of his fixed 
compensation. It comprises financial objectives for 60% and non -financial quantifiable and 
qualitative individual objectives for 40%, potentially varying between 0% and 200% of the 
theoretical amount for quantifiable objectives and between 0% and 100% of the theoretical 
amount for purely qualitative objectives.
variable component based on financial indicators: this component was calculated in 
accordance with quantifiable criteria and the following respective weightings, all relating to 
the financial results as compared to objectives set by the Board at the beginning of the year:
1)   % attainment of revenues: 30% weighting; 
2)   % attainment of the operating margin rate: 30% weighting; 
3)   % attainment of net profit before taxes: 20% weighting; 
4)   % attainment of organic  free cash flow: 20% weighting.
These objectives were assessed with respect to the objectives set by the Board of Directors’ 
meeting of March 16, 2023.
Attainment rates  for these four objectives were 96.18%, 100.59%, 97.36% and 109.06%  
respectively, which, taking account of the relative weighting of each objective, gives an overall 
weighted attainment rate of 100.31% .
The Group’s historical calculation formula accelerates actual performance upwards or downwards 
such that for 2023:
 — if the weighted performance of the above four financial indicators is less than or equal to 
75%, the variable financial component will be nil; 
 — if the weighted performance of the above four financial indicators is greater than or 
equal to 125%, the variable financial component will be capped and equal to twice its 
theoretical amount; 
 — accordingly, a one -point variance in the weighted attainment rate increases or decreases 
the variable component by 4%; 
 — a weighted rate of 100.31% in 2023 results in the multiplication of the theoretical variable 
component by 101.24 % ; 
 — giving a final amount for the variable component calculated based on financial indicators 
of 1,000,000 x 60% x 101.24% equal to €607,440.
variable component based on individual performance objectives : the assessment and 
associated proposal were based on work performed by the Compensation Committee, 
which reviewed the various individual performance objectives grouped into two categories: 
“quantifiable objectives” for 50% and “individual performance objectives” for 50%. The 
quantifiable objectives set by the Board at the beginning of the year remained unchanged.
The quantifiable objectives concerned the deployment of the CSR strategy focusing on 
externally audited data on diversity and environmental responsibility . The diversity objective 
was measured based on the % of women in Executive leadership positions, with a 2 points 
annual improvement objective from 2020 to 2025. This ambitious objective was attained and 
even slightly exceeded with a 2.2 points improvement compared with the annual objective 
of +2 points.

CorPor ATe GovernAnCe
Compensation of corporate officers
95
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI2 
  
 With regards to environmental responsibility, the objective was a 70% reduction in greenhouse 
gas emissions vs. the 2019 baseline, with attainment of this objective including the ability to 
use carbon credits up to a maximum of 320,000tCO². This objective was also reached, due 
to a 48% reduction in emissions generated by business travel and by 60% for business travel 
per employee, and by more than 85% regarding data centers and offices emissions compared 
with 2019. This is also thanks to targeted actions such as the flexible work policy, shifting the 
car-pool catalog within the Group to electric or hybrid cars and progressively shifting electricity 
supply toward renewable energy in the amount of 96% at the end of 2023. In addition, the net 
reduction, excluding any offsets, amounted to 47% implying a lower than authorized usage of 
carbon credits representing only 74% of the maximum authorized amount for an overall 75% 
reduction of our emissions. On this basis, the Board confirmed that the overall attainment 
rate for the quantifiable objectives set in accordance with preset methodology had been 
exceeded and set it at 106.65% .
The Board defined two specific individual qualitative objectives .
The first specific objective  concerned talent attractiveness and was assessed as very successful 
with regards to the various criteria set by the Board at the beginning of the year to support its 
decision, such as the low level of attrition within the high performing VPs with less than 2% of 
this population having left in 2023, onboarding of several key roles at Group level demonstrating 
the Group ongoing external attractivity, the deployment of a flexible working policy within the 
Group with the ability to work up to 45 days abroad, the satisfactory and positive evolution of 
the level of employee engagement from internal and external sources, the monitoring and the 
reduction of the attrition level in comparison to market and the successful implementation of 
a new leadership model across all internal processes (recruitment, performance management, 
promotions) associated with the deployment of new talent programs. The Board considered 
that the objectives defined for this category were reached and set attainment at the 
capped percentage of 100%.
The second specific objective  concerned the key accounts strategy, measured by client satisfaction 
for our main clients according to several pre -defined metrics, with an improvement on 2022. 
In particular, the three key metrics adopted (innovation, overall satisfaction and NPs score) 
were all attained or exceeded. The Board considered that the objectives defined for this 
category were reached and set attainment at the capped percentage of 100%.
The Board therefore approved an overall weighted performance of 103.33% as per the table 
below: 
objective Min Target MaxAttain-  
mentWeighted 
attain-
ment
CSR strategy – diversity 0% 25.0% 50% 113.33% 28.33%
CSR strategy – sustainable 
development 0% 25.0% 50% 100% 25.0%
Talent attractiveness 0% 25.0% 25% 100% 25.0%
Strategic partnering with clients 0% 25.0% 25% 100% 25.0%
Total 0% 100% 150%  103.33%
Target amount (in €) 0400,000 600,000   
Proposed amount (in €)     413,330
The variable component, based on individual performance objectives of a prorated amount 
of €1,000,000 x 40% = €400,000, to which the weighted performance percentage of 103,33% 
is applied, is giving therefore a final amount of €413,330.

CorPor ATe GovernAnCe
Compensation of corporate officers
96
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT2Accordingly, variable compensation of €1,020,770 was approved by the Board for 2023, i.e. 102.1% 
of fixed compensation for the same fiscal year and of the theoretical variable compensation. 
Total fixed and variable compensation for 2023 is therefore €2,020,770, i.e. 101.0% of the 
theoretical compensation, as summarized in the following table:
 Calculation of 2023 variable compensation for Mr. Aiman e zzat
 Quantitative component based on budgeted financial targets
Indicator Min Target MaxAttain-  
mentWeighted 
attain-
ment
Revenues  30%  96.2% 28.85%
Operating margin rate (%)  30%  100.6% 30.18%
Pre-tax net profit  20%  97.4% 19.47%
Organic free cash flow  20%  109.1% 21.81%
Weighted total performance  
before flex 0% 100% 200%  100.31%
Weighted total after 75/125 flex  
(4 x weighted performance – 3)     101.24%
Theoretical variable compensation 
based on financial indicators     600,000
Variable compensation based on 
financial indicators    
607,440
Qualitative component based on individual performance objectives
Category Min Target MaxWeighted 
attain-
ment
CSR strategy – diversity 0% 25% 50%
103.33%CSR strategy – sustainable development 0% 25% 50%
Talent attractiveness 0% 25% 25%
Strategic partnering with clients 0% 25% 25%
Theoretical variable compensation based on 
individual objectives    400,000
Variable compensation based on  
individual performance objectives    413,330
TOTAL 2023 VARIABLE COMPENSATION    1,020,770
As a % of theoretical variable compensation   102.1%
As a % of fixed compensation   102.1%
  The variable compensation due in respect of a given fiscal year is calculated based on the 
audited accounts approved by the Board at the beginning of Y+1 and is paid after the approval 
of the compensation components by shareholders.
deferred 
variable 
compensationn/A There is no deferred variable compensation. Amount or 
accounting value 
subject to vote Presentation

CorPor ATe GovernAnCe
Compensation of corporate officers
97
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI2Multi -year 
variable 
compensation€401,240 for 
2023, paid 50% 
in July 2024 and 
50% in July 2025During the Board of Directors’ meeting of February 13, 2024, the Board of Directors, based on the 
audited and approved accounts and at the recommendation of the Compensation Committee, 
assessed Mr. Aiman Ezzat’s long savings plan for fiscal year 2023, of a target amount if objectives 
are attained of €400,000. This allowance is subject to a performance condition based on the 
unflexed weighted performance of the financial indicators. For 2023, this gives a weighted 
attainment of 100.31%, giving an amount of 100.31% x €400,000 = €401,240 for the full year:
 — 50% of this amount, i.e. €200,620, will be paid in July 2024; 
 — 50%, i.e. €200,620, will be paid in July 2025, subject to Mr. Aiman Ezzat being present in 
the Group at June 30, 2025.
stock options, 
performance 
shares or any 
other form 
of long -term 
compensation
 Performance 
shares 
€2,398,199 (IF rs 
accounting value 
on grant date)
 19,500 shares granted subject to performance and presence conditions.
The vesting of performance shares is contingent on the realization of both an external 
performance condition and two internal performance conditions. The external performance 
condition accounts for 40% of the grant and is based on the comparative performance of 
the Capgemini share over three years against the average performance of a basket of nine 
comparable companies in the same business sector and from at least five countries (Accenture/
Alten/Indra/Atos/Tieto/Sopra Steria/CGI Group/Infosys and Cognizant), the CAC 40 index and 
the Euro Stoxx Techno 600 index. Accordingly, no shares vest if the relative performance of the 
Capgemini share is less than 100% of the performance of the basket of comparable companies, 
while 100% of shares vest only if this relative performance is at 110% or above. If performance 
is similar to that of the market, only 50% of the initial grant vests. The 110% overperformance 
applies if the relative performance is at 120% or above of the basket performance.
The external performance condition has been strengthened since 2016, as the effective vesting 
of shares starts from a minimum achievement of 100% of the basket of comparable companies, 
while historically it started at 90%.
The internal performance condition based on organic free cash flow generation over the 
three -year period from 2023 to 2025 accounts for 40% of the grant. The minimum amount 
necessary for shares to vest is €5.4 billion. Above this threshold, shares vest progressively on a 
straight -line basis, with a grant of 100% for an organic free cash flow generation of €5.8 billion 
and a grant of 110% for organic free cash flow generation of €6.2 billion or more. The internal 
performance condition relating to CSR performance indicators measured at the end of 2025 
is based for 50% on the percentage of female executives leaders. This percentage must be 
30% to receive 100% of the grant, with no grant if it is below 28.5%. For the remaining 50%, it 
is based on a reduction in GHG emissions of at least 85% in 2025 (vs. the 2019 baseline), with 
100% of the grant vesting if this reduction reaches 100%.
The number of shares that may vest to Executive Corporate Officers may not exceed 0.0012% 
of the share capital.
Authorized by the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 16, 2023.
Fourteenth resolution.
Grant authorized by the Board of Directors on November 6, 2023.
stock  
options = n/a 
other  
Items = n/aNo stock options or other Items were granted.
Compensation 
for duties as a 
directorvoluntary waiver The Board of Directors took due note of Mr. Aiman Ezzat’s decision to waive his right to 
collect any compensation for his duties as a Director of Capgemini SE in respect of 2023 (as 
done since 2020).
valuation of 
benefits in kind€0 No Company car Amount or 
accounting value 
subject to vote Presentation

CorPor ATe GovernAnCe
Compensation of corporate officers
98
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT2other compensation components
 Amount subject to 
vote Presentation
severance pay €0 No amount due in respect of the fiscal year.
Following the appointment of Mr. Aiman Ezzat as Chief Operating Officer as of January 1, 2018, 
the Board, based on the proposal of the Compensation Committee, authorized the principle of 
severance pay due in the event of termination of his corporate office. During the meeting of 
March 16, 2023, the Board of Directors considered again that it was in the Company’s interest 
to maintain this system for the Chief Executive Officer in the event of forced departure. 
However, no severance pay shall be due if the Chief Executive Officer leaves the Company on 
his own initiative, changes positions within the Group, is entitled to exercise his right to retire 
in the near future or is 65 years old on the termination of his term of office, or in the event of 
gross negligence or serious misconduct.
In compliance with the recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF Code, the aggregate amount of 
(i) severance pay effectively paid, and (ii) any indemnity likely to be paid in consideration for 
the non -compete undertaking, may not exceed a maximum amount equal to twice the fixed 
compensation plus theoretical annual variable compensation as at the date of termination 
of his duties.
The grant and amount of the severance pay will depend on the percentage attainment of 
the weighted performance of the financial indicators applicable for the Chief Executive 
Officer’s variable component based on financial performance observed annually during the 
two completed fiscal years preceding the termination of his duties as Chief Executive Officer, 
it being specified that the final year will count for 60%, while the previous year will count for 
40%. As the grant and amount of the variable component is subject to financial indicators and 
to the Group’s consolidated results, the severance pay will therefore also be subject to the 
satisfaction of these same performance conditions.
The Board of Directors will confirm the effective attainment of these performance criteria.
Board approval on March 16, 2023.
Authorized by the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 16, 2023.
Ninth resolution.
non-compete 
indemnities€0 No amount due in respect of the fiscal year
On the proposal of the Compensation Committee, the Board decided that the Chief Executive 
Officer will be subject to a non -compete undertaking for a period of twelve months as from the 
termination of his employment contract following termination of his duties of Chief Executive 
Officer, and will receive an indemnity equal to half of the applicable gross theoretical annual 
compensation (fixed plus variable) if objectives are attained on the date of termination of the 
duties of Chief Executive Officer. The Board of Directors will be entitled, at its own discretion, 
to lift this non -compete obligation on departure of the Chief Executive Officer.
Board approval on March 16, 2023.
Authorized by the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 16, 203.
Ninth resolution.
supplementary 
pension 
benefitsn/A No supplementary pension benefits

CorPor ATe GovernAnCe
Compensation of corporate officers
99
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI22332  2023 compensation of the Chairman,  
Mr Paul Hermelin
The general principles described in Section 2.3.2.1, the compensation 
policy set out in Section 2.3.2.4 and the summary table in 
Section 2.3.3.4 represent the Board of Directors’ report to shareholders established pursuant to the provisions of Article L. 22 -10-8 of 
the French Commercial Code. These principles and criteria are 
subject to the approval of the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of 
May 16, 2024 (for more information, see Chapter 7 of this Universal 
Registration Document).
(gross amount) Compensation for 2022 Compensation for 2023  
Mr. Paul h ermelin,
Chairman of the Board of d irectorsPaid in  
2022Granted  
in 2022,  
paid in  
2023Total  
2022Paid in 
2023  Granted  
in 2023, 
paid in 
2024  Total  
2023 
Fixed compensation 333,333 - 333,333 - - -
Annual variable compensation - - - - - - 
Multi -year variable compensation - - - - - - 
Exceptional compensation - - - - - - 
Compensation for duties as a Director 27,567 152,200 179,767 167,500 156,500 324,000 
Benefits in kind - - - - - - 
Total compensation paid or granted in respect of the 
fiscal year 360,900 152,200 513,100 167,500 156,500 324,000 
In addition, the value of performance shares granted  during the fiscal year and valued as per the IFRS rules on the grant date is reported 
below:
(gross amount) Compensation for 2022 Compensation for 2023 
Mr. Paul h ermelin,
Chairman of the Board of d irectorsGranted in  
2022Granted  
in 2022,  
paid in  
2023Total  
2022Granted  
in 2023 Granted  
in 2023, 
paid in 
2024 Total  
2023 
Value of multi -year variable compensation granted in 
respect of the fiscal year - - - - - - 
Value of options granted during the fiscal year - - - - - - 
Value of performance shares granted during the fiscal 
year - - - - - - 
TOTAL GRANTED ‑ ‑ ‑ ‑ ‑ ‑ 
TOTAL 360,900 152,200 513,100 167,500 156,500 324,000 
Pursuant to Say on Pay rules and the most recent revised AFEP-
MEDEF Code with which Capgemini complies, the compensation of 
Executive Corporate Officers paid during the fiscal year or granted 
in respect of the fiscal year then ended must be presented to the Shareholders’ Meeting for vote. The following table summarizes 
the 2023 compensation components subject to shareholders’ vote 
pursuant to the Say on Pay policy.
Compensation components paid in 2023 or granted in respect of 2023 to Mr. Paul h ermelin and  
subject to shareholder vote
 Amount or 
accounting value 
subject to vote Presentation
Fixed 
compensationn/A No fixed compensation was paid.
Annual variable 
compensationn/A No annual variable compensation was paid.
deferred 
variable 
compensationn/A There is no deferred variable compensation.
Multi -year 
variable 
compensationn/A There is no multi -year variable compensation mechanism.
exceptional 
compensationn/A No exceptional compensation was paid.

CorPor ATe GovernAnCe
Compensation of corporate officers
100
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT2 Amount or 
accounting value 
subject to vote Presentation
stock options, 
performance 
shares or any 
other form 
of long -term 
compensationn/A No shares were granted subject to performance and presence conditions in 2023.
stock  
options = n/a 
other  
Items = n/aNo stock options or other Items were granted.
Compensation 
for duties as a 
director€324,000 In compliance with the compensation policy approved by the Shareholders’ Meeting of 
May 16, 2023, Mr. Paul Hermelin’s compensation for duties as a Director was €324,000 for 
2023.
valuation of 
benefits in kind€0 No Company car
other compensation components
 Amount  
subject to vote Presentation
severance pay  No entitlement to severance pay.
non-compete 
indemnities No non -compete indemnities
supplementary 
pension 
benefits Mr. Paul Hermelin was a member of the supplementary collective defined benefit pension 
plan (Article 39) set up in 2006 in Capgemini Service, under the same conditions applicable to 
other employee members. He exercised his retirement rights following his 70th birthday and 
therefore benefited from the terms of this plan, which was closed to new beneficiaries in 2015 
with rights frozen at October 31, 2015. The conditions are strictly those approved pursuant to 
the Say on Pay policy at each Shareholders’ Meeting in past years.
Employment contract of Corporate Officers
With regards to Mr. Paul Hermelin, the Board reminds readers 
that his employment contract was suspended in its entirety on 
May 24, 1996 (date from which he exercised his first term of office 
as a member of the Management Board) and that he informed the 
Board of Directors’ meeting of February 18, 2015, that he waived 
his employment contract as from that date.Mr. Aiman Ezzat’s employment contract was suspended following 
his appointment as Chief Operating Officer on January 1, 2018, 
when he became an Executive Corporate Officer of the Group. In 
addition, he informed the Board of Directors’ meeting of March 11, 
2020, of his decision to waive his employment contract from his 
appointment as Chief Executive Officer. This waiver is now effective 
since May 20, 2020.
Corporate Officers: employment contracts and deferred compensation
 employment 
contractsupplementary 
pension plan  
(see before)Indemnities 
or benefits 
following 
appointment, 
termination or 
change in dutiesIndemnities 
in respect of 
non -compete 
clause
Mr. Paul h ermelin
Chief Executive Officer up to May 24, 2012, Chairman and Chief 
Executive Officer up to May 20, 2020 and Chairman of the Board 
thereafterNo Yes, closed  
with frozen 
rightsNo No
Mr. Aiman e zzat
Chief Operating Officer from January 1, 2018, to May 20, 2020 and 
Chief Executive Officer thereafterNo No Yes Yes

CorPor ATe GovernAnCe
Compensation of corporate officers
101
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI22333  Compensation paid in 2023 or granted in respect of 2023 to all Corporate Officers for  
their duties as a Director
directors
Compensation for duties as a Director paid to  
non ‑Executive Corporate Officers
(gross amount) Paid in  
2023Granted in 
2023 Presentation
Total compensation paid in 2023 or granted in 
respect of fiscal year 2023 to Directors for  
their duties1,067,400 1,094,950 See the Directors’ compensation policy in 
Section 2.3.1, not including Mr. Paul Hermelin’s 
Directors’ compensation
Non Executive Corporate Officer
(gross amount) Paid in  
2023Granted in 
2023 Presentation
Paul h ermelin, 
Chairman of the Board of  
Directors from May 20, 2020 
  
2023 fixed compensation - -See Section 2.3.2.3 on the Chairman’s 
compensation policy
2022 annual variable compensation - -n/a
2023 annual variable compensation - -n/a
Multi -year variable compensation - -n/a
Exceptional compensation - -n/a
Performance shares - -n/a
Compensation for duties as a Director 319,700 324,000 See Section 2.3.2.3 on the Chairman’s 
compensation policy
Benefits in kind - -n/a
Golden hello - -n/a
Severance pay - -n/a
Supplementary pension benefits - -n/a
TOTAL COMPENSATION PAID DURING THE FISCAL 
YEAR OR GRANTED IN RESPECT OF THE FISCAL 
YEAR TO THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD 319,700 324,000  
Executive Corporate Officer
(gross amount)  Paid in  
2023Granted in 
2023 Presentation
Aiman Ezzat,
Chief Executive Officer  
from May 20, 2020    
2023 fixed compensation 1,000,000 -See Section 2.3.2.2 on the Chief Executive 
Officer’s compensation policy
2022 annual variable compensation 1,112,320 -In application of the Chief Executive Officer’s 
compensation policy approved by the 
Shareholders’ Meeting of May 16, 2023
2023 annual variable compensation -1,020,770 See Section 2.3.2.2 on the Chief Executive 
Officer’s compensation policy and 
Section 2.3.3.1 on the calculation method 
and indicators adopted for 2023 variable 
compensation
Multi -year variable compensation 436,980 401,240 In application of the Chief Executive Officer’s 
compensation policy approved by the 
Shareholders’ Meeting of May 29, 2022. 
€229,620 in respect of 2022 and €207,360 in 
respect of the balance for 2021
See Section 2.3.2.2 on the Chief Executive 
Officer’s compensation policy and 
Section 2.3.3.1 on the calculation and payment 
methods for the long savings plan

CorPor ATe GovernAnCe
Compensation of corporate officers
102
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT2Executive Corporate Officer
(gross amount)  Paid in  
2023Granted in 
2023 Presentation
Exceptional compensation - -n/a
Performance shares -2,398,199 See Section 2.3.2.2 on the Chief Executive 
Officer’s compensation policy and 
Section 2.3.3.1 on the performance and 
presence conditions and the % concerned
Compensation for duties as a Director - -(waiver)
Benefits in kind - -See Section 2.3.2.2 on the Chief Executive 
Officer’s compensation policy
Golden hello - -n/a
Severance pay - -See Section 2.3.2.2 on the Chief Executive 
Officer’s compensation policy
Supplementary pension benefits - -n/a
TOTAL COMPENSATION PAID DURING THE FISCAL 
YEAR OR GRANTED IN RESPECT OF THE FISCAL 
YEAR TO THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 2,549,300 3,820,209  
TOTAL COMPENSATION PAID OR GRANTED IN 
RESPECT OF THE FISCAL YEAR TO ALL  
CORPORATE OFFICERS 3,936,400 5,239,159  
In addition to the above items, in accordance with Order 2019 -1234 
of November 27, 2019, concerning compensation paid to corporate 
officers of listed companies, it is specified that:
 — the Group’s compensation policy does not include the use 
of a clause enabling it to demand repayment of variable 
compensation; 
 — in the event of failure to apply the law on gender equality 
within the Board of Directors, Directors’ compensation 
would be suspended; 
 — the compensation policy has been applied in the manner 
described and voted last year during the Shareholders’ 
Meeting of May 16, 2023; 
 — the results of the votes on compensation at the previous 
Shareholders’ Meeting of May 16, 2023, were as follows:
 –  the resolutions relating to votes on ex -post resolutions 
were approved by 95.33% for the Chairman of the Board, 
92.99% for the Chief Executive Officer and 96.31% for 
the Directors,
 –  the resolutions relating to votes on ex -ante resolutions 
were approved by 91.04% for the Chief Executive Officer, 
98.71% for the Chairman of the Board and 98.97% for the 
Directors.
Compensation multiples – e quity ratio
scope
Pursuant to Article L. 225 -37-3-6° of the French Commercial Code, 
the Group is required to calculate, over a five -year period, the 
ratio between the compensation of each Executive Corporate 
Officer and the average and median compensation on a full -time 
equivalent basis of employees of the relevant scope (excluding corporate officers). The scope adopted by the Group encompasses 
all French companies of the economic and social unit, including all 
Altran French legal entities since 2020, except two recently acquired 
small companies not yet integrated. France, which is the Group’s 
home country and the second largest country in size, is considered 
the natural reference scope for calculating these ratios, with the 
Group holding company and over half the Group Executive Board 
members also based in France. The scope considered therefore 
covers 99.5% of the headcount of French legal entities.
Methodology
The calculations were performed in accordance with AF eP 
guidelines  and include all compensation components paid during 
the relevant year, both in the numerator and in the denominator 
(fixed, variable, exceptional and deferred compensation, benefits in 
kind, profit -sharing, incentive payments, social contributions, etc.), 
as well as the IFRS valuation of shares granted during the relevant 
year and for the Executive Corporate Officers, the long savings 
plan granted for the year if any.
The denominator includes active employees present throughout 
the relevant year, on a full -time equivalent basis. Interns, trainees, 
sabbaticals and long -term absences are therefore not taken into 
consideration in the employee average. These rules are also the 
ones applied to all legal entities integrated since 2020 in the 
calculation. Furthermore, it is recalled that given the change in 
the Group governance during 2020, the salaries of corporate 
officers for 2020 have been recalculated on a full -year basis and 
each Executive Corporate Officer has been reported in the table 
below on an annualized basis for 2020.
It is also recalled that the reduction in 2020 compensation in 
relation to the Covid crisis needs to be taken into consideration 
when looking at the trend between 2021 and 2020.

CorPor ATe GovernAnCe
Compensation of corporate officers
103
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI2Ratios related to I.6° and 7° of Article L. 22‑10‑9 of French Code de commerce
Year Comment 2019 2020  (1) 2021 2022 2023 
Annualized gross compensation paid or granted to Executive Corporate Officers during the year (in k€)
Chairman of the Board – Paul Hermelin
Year -on-year trend in %Since May 20, 2020  n/a 33.3% -54.9% -11.4% 
Chairman and CEO – Paul Hermelin
Year -on-year trend in %From May 24, 2012 to 
May 20, 20203.7% -43.2% (2) n/a n/a n/a 
CEO – Aiman Ezzat
Year -on-year trend in %Since May 20, 2020  n/a 18.3% 16.1% -6.5% 
COO – Aiman Ezzat
Year -on-year trend in %From January 1, 2018 
to May 20, 20205.4% -49.7%  (2) n/a n/a n/a 
Average gross compensation paid or granted to employees present during the full year (in k€)  French scope
Year -on-year trend in % Altran since 2020 2.7% -5.2% (3) 3.8% 8.3% 0.0% 
Equity ratio: trend vs  fully loaded averagee
Chairman of the Board – Paul Hermelin   10.9 13.8 5.4 4.5 
Year -on-year trend in % Since May 20, 2020  n/a 26.6% - 61.1% -15.7% 
Chairman and CEO – Paul Hermelin  76.9 47.7  (2) n/a n/a n/a 
Year -on-year trend in % From May 24, 2012 to 
May 20, 20203.4% -37.9% n/a n/a n/a 
CEO – Aiman Ezzat   63.8 (4) 73.1 78.7 73.3 
Year -on-year trend in % Since May 20, 2020  n/a 14.6% 7.6% -6.8% 
COO – Aiman Ezzat  54.1 30.9 (2) n/a n/a n/a 
Year -on-year trend in % From January 1, 2018 
to May 20, 20204.7% -42.9% n/a n/a n/a 
Average median compensation paid or granted to employees present during the full year (in k€)
Year -on-year trend in % Altran since 2020 2.0% -2.7%  (3) 2.0% 6.7% 0.0% 
Equity ratio: trend vs  fully loaded average
Chairman of the Board – Paul Hermelin   13.3 17.2 6.8 5.7 
Year -on-year trend in % Since May 20, 2020  n/a 28.5% -60.9% -15.7% 
Chairman and CEO – Paul Hermelin  96.4 58.3  (2) n/a n/a n/a 
Year -on-year trend in % From May 24, 2012 to 
May 20, 20204.2% -39.5% n/a n/a n/a 
CEO – Aiman Ezzat   77.9  (4) 90.6 99.0 92.2 
Year -on-year trend in % Since May 20, 2020  n/a 16.3% 9.2% -6.8% 
COO – Aiman Ezzat  67.9 37.7  (2) n/a n/a n/a 
Year -on-year trend in % From January 1, 2018 
to May 20, 20205.5% -44.4% n/a n/a n/a 
(1) Integration of Altran in the scope from 2020.
(2) The 2020 annualized compensation includes the impact of the 25% Covid reduction, thus explaining fully the 2021 variation.
(3) The integration of Altran in the scope from 2020 drove a reduction in the average and median employee gross compensation (12% median variance between Capgemini 
and Altran).
(4) The 2020 annualized CEO compensation includes the impact of the 25% Covid reduction on fixed and variable components, thus explaining the 2021 variation along with 
the improved business performance.

CorPor ATe GovernAnCe
Compensation of corporate officers
104
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT2Trends in compensation, Company performance and 
average compensation
During the past five years, two corporate offices (Chairman of 
the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer) were held for 
more than 3 years. Compensation trends for the two executive 
roles are partly due to the Group’s annual performance impact 
compared to annual objectives for the variable component and 
partly to the valuation of performance shares granted. In addition, 
the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer’s compensation for 
2020 reduced significantly as he did not receive a performance 
shares grant in 2020 (office ended in May 2020) and due to the 
impact of the 25% reduction in fixed and variable compensation 
in relation to the Covid -19 crisis. This 25% reduction, which went 
further than the AFEP recommendation on the health crisis, also 
impacted the Chief Executive Officer’s compensation for 2020 
and that of the Chairman of the Board of Directors. Compensation 
trends must therefore be analyzed with regard to the impact of the health crisis on compensation. The end of this measure in 2021 
combined with the economic recovery explains the majority of 
trends identified above.
With regard to the global performance recorded over the period, 
whether in terms of growth (+59%) or profitability (+72%), trends 
and evolution in the compensation of the Chairman and of the 
Chief Executive Officer are not following the successful evolution 
of the Group and reflect the ambitious nature of the Group’s 
objectives. Alike, while the 2023 economic performance evolution 
of key performance indicators remains strong in a more challenging 
environment, the compensation evolution remained lower than the 
economic progression. This is even more true when consolidating 
the two corporate Directors. At the same time, the average and 
median compensation of employees’ present during the full year 
in the consolidation scope rose 6.5% and 5.9%, respectively, over 
the period.
Key Performance Indicator trends (in millions of euros)  2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2023 -2019
Revenues 14,125 15,848 18,160 21,995 22,522 59%
Year -on-year trend in % 7% 12.2% 14.6% 21.1% 2.4%  
Operating margin 1,741 1,879 2,340 2,867 2,991 72%
Year -on-year trend in % 9% 7.9% 24.5% 22.5% 4.3%  
80%
60%
40%
20%
-20%0ANNUAL COMPARATIVE EVOLUTION OF CEO REMUNERATION 
VS REVENUE AND OPERATING MARGIN EVOLUTION
CEO YoY remuneration evolution OM YoY increase Revenue YoY increase201997
2020-20-4812
2020 restated*-10812
20212325
15
2022-82321
2023-242
2023-2019-172
59
* 2020 restated to account for the 25% reduction of the ﬁxed and variable compensation in the context of the Covid-19 health crisis.

CorPor ATe GovernAnCe
Compensation of corporate officers
105
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI2234  Share subscription options, share purchase options and performance 
shares
The following tables present a breakdown of stock options and 
performance shares granted to, exercised by or vested to Executive 
Corporate Officers during 2023 and historical information on stock 
options and performance shares granted.It should be noted that no stock options have been granted by 
the Group since 2009.
stock options granted  during the year 
to each Executive Corporate Officer by 
Capgemini SE and/or any other Group 
companyPlan date  
and numbernumber and type 
(purchase or 
subscription) of  
options granted  
during the yearvalue of options 
using the method 
adopted in the 
consolidated 
financial  
statementsstrike  
priceexercise 
period
Paul Hermelin n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
Aiman Ezzat n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
stock options exercised  during the year by  
each Executive Corporate OfficerPlan date 
and numbernumber of  
options exercised 
during the yearstrike  
priceexercise 
period
Paul Hermelin n/a n/a n/a n/a
Aiman Ezzat n/a n/a n/a n/a
Performance shares 
granted during the year to 
each e xecutive Corporate 
Officer by Capgemini SE 
and/or any other Group 
companyPlan date  
and numberTheoretical 
maximum number 
of shares granted 
during the yearvalue of shares 
calculated using 
the method 
adopted in the 
consolidated 
financial 
statementsPotential 
vesting datePotential 
availability  
datePerformance 
conditions
Aiman Ezzat 18th plan of 
11/06/202319,500 €2,398,199 11/12/2026 Later of the 
end of his term 
of office and 
16/11/2027 and 
as per holding 
obligations of the 
compensation 
policyMore detail on 
performance 
conditions can 
be found in 
Note 12 to the 
Consolidated 
Statements
Performance shares vested to  
each Executive Corporate OfficerPlan date  
and numbernumber of 
performance 
shares vested 
during  
the yearvesting 
conditions Year of grant
Paul Hermelin n/a n/a n/a n/a
Aiman Ezzat 13th plan 
October 202025,000 Performance  
and presence2020
Historical information concerning stock options granted to Corporate Officers
The Group has not granted any stock options since 2009 and the last grant performed on June 1, 2008 expired in 2013.

CorPor ATe GovernAnCe
Compensation of corporate officers
106
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT2Historical information concerning performance shares – position at December 31, 2023
Plans ended
Plan number 2009 Plan 2010 Plan 2012 Plan 2013 Plan 2014 Plan 2015 Plan
Grant date 03/05/2009 10/01/2010 12/12/2012 02/20/2013 07/30/2014 07/29/2015
Number of performance shares 
initially granted 1,148,250 1,555,000 1,003,500 1,209,100 1,290,500 1,068,550
o/w to Paul Hermelin* 50,000 (nil) 50,000 50,000 50,000 40,000
Number of shares vested 485,750 881,048 882,500 1,014,700 1,065,000 881,510
o/w to Paul Hermelin* 25,000 (nil) 50,000 50,000 50,000 39,200
Cumulative number of  
shares canceled or expired 662,500 673,952 121,000 194,400 225,500 187,040
Vesting date – France 03/05/2011 10/01/2012 01/01/2015 03/01/2015 08/01/2016 03/01/2018
Vesting date – outside France 03/05/2013 10/01/2014 01/01/2017 03/01/2017 08/01/2018 08/01/2019
End of holding period – France 03/05/2013 10/01/2014 01/01/2019 03/01/2019 08/01/2020 03/01/2021
End of holding period – outside France 03/05/2013 10/01/2014 01/01/2017 03/01/2017 08/01/2018 08/01/2019
Share price at grant date (in euros)  23.3 37.16 33.15 36.53 53.35 87.6
Plan number 2015 Plan 2016 Plan 2017 Plan 2017 Plan 2018 Plan 2019 Plan
Grant date 02/17/2016 07/26/2016 07/26/2017 10/05/2017 10/03/2018 10/02/2019
Number of performance shares 
initially granted 180,500 1,663,500 63,597 1,522,500 1,384,530 1,523,015
o/w to Paul Hermelin* (nil) 42,000 (nil) 35,000 28,000 28,000
o/w to Aiman Ezzat*     16,500 19,000
Number of shares vested 111,200 1,178,005 32,384 984,690 1,077,863 1,249,112
o/w to Paul Hermelin* n/a 37,800 n/a 28,000 26,040 28,000
o/w to Aiman Ezzat*     15,345 19,000
Cumulative number of shares  
canceled or expired 69,300 485,495 31,213 537,810 306,667 273,903
Vesting date – France 03/01/2018 08/01/2019 n/a 10/05/2020 10/03/2021 10/02/2022
Vesting date – outside France 03/01/2020 08/01/2020 08/01/2020 10/05/2021 10/03/2022 10/02/2023
End of holding period – France 03/01/2020 08/01/2021 n/a 10/05/2022 10/03/2023 10/02/2024
End of holding period – outside France 03/01/2020 08/01/2020 08/01/2020 10/05/2021 10/03/2022 10/02/2023
Share price at grant date (in euros)  71.61 83.78 94.2 100.25 112.35 107.35
* Complete historical information on active performance share plans in 2021 is provided in Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

CorPor ATe GovernAnCe
Compensation of corporate officers
107
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI2Active plans
Plan number 2020 Plan 2021 Plan 2021 Plan 2022 Plan 2022 Plan 2023 Plan
Shareholders’ Meeting 05/20/2020 05/20/2021 05/20/2021 05/19/2022 05/19/2022 05/16/2023
Grant date 10/07/2020 10/06/2021 12/01/2021 10/03/2022 10/03/2022 11/06/2023
Number of performance shares 
initially granted 1,900,000 1,834,500 14,325 1,982,000 13,750 1,872,500
o/w to Paul Hermelin* ‑ ‑ ‑ ‑ ‑ ‑
o/w to Aiman Ezzat* 25,000 18,500 ‑ 21,000 ‑ 19,500
Number of shares vested 520,200 2,475 n/a 660 n/a n/a
o/w to Paul Hermelin* ‑ ‑ ‑ ‑ ‑ ‑
o/w to Aiman Ezzat* 25,000 n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
Cumulative number of shares  
canceled or expired 305,760 239,410 5,770 113,795 3,500 5,000
Number of shares potentially available 
for grant at the end of 2022 1,074,040 1,592,615 8,555 1,867,545 10,250 1,867,500
o/w to Paul Hermelin* ‑ ‑ ‑ ‑ ‑ ‑
o/w to Aiman Ezzat* ‑ 18,500 ‑ 21,000 ‑ 19,500
Vesting date – France 10/07/2023 10/08/2024 n/a 10/10/2025 10/10/2025 11/12/2026
Vesting date – outside France 10/07/2024 10/08/2025 12/01/2024 10/10/2026 10/10/2025 11/12/2026
End of holding period – France 10/07/2024 10/08/2025 n/a 10/10/2026 10/10/2025 11/16/2027
End of holding period – outside France 10/07/2024 10/08/2025 12/01/2024 10/10/2026 10/10/2025 11/13/2026
Share price at grant date (in euros)  107.55 175.65 207.3 163.15 163.15 168.75
* Complete historical information on active performance share plans in 2023 is provided in Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Historical information concerning stock options granted to the top ten employees  
(not Executive Corporate Officers)
Share purchase options granted by Capgemini SE to the top ten 
employees (not Executive Corporate Officers) who have received 
the greatest number of shares and the number of shares vested to the top ten employees (not Executive Corporate Officers) who 
have subscribed for the greatest number of shares are as follows:
stock options granted to/exercised by the ten employees  
(not Executive Corporate Officers) having received the greatest number of sharesTotal number 
of stock 
options 
granted/
exercisedWeighted 
average  
pricePlan  
number
Options granted during the year by Capgemini SE to the ten employees of  
all eligible companies having received the greatest number of sharesNil n/a No
Options exercised (held previously on Capgemini SE) by the ten Group employees 
having exercised the greatest number of sharesNil n/a No
Performance shares granted by Capgemini SE to the top ten 
employees (not Executive Corporate Officers) who have received 
the greatest number of shares and the number of performance shares vested to the top ten employees (not Executive Corporate 
Officers) holding the greatest number of vested shares are as follows:
Performance shares granted/vested to the ten employees  
(not Executive Corporate Officers) having received the greatest number of sharesnumber of 
shares vestedPlan  
number
Performance shares granted during the year by Capgemini SE to the ten employees of 
all eligible companies who have received the greatest number of shares106,000 18th Performance share plan
Performance shares (held previously on Capgemini SE) of the ten Group employees 
holding the greatest number of vested shares92,000 12th and 13th share grant plans

108
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT2CorPor ATe GovernAnCe
 

109
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI331 ——  RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEMS  110
311		Definition	of	the	risk	management	and	internal	control	systems	 110
312   Implementation of risk management and internal control objectives for 
the	preparation	and	processing	of	financial	and	accounting	information	 113
313   Measures implemented as part of constant improvements to risk management and 
internal control systems 114
32 —— RISK FACTORS  117
321   Critical risks 117
322   Emerging risks 133
323   Corporate & Social Responsibility Materiality Assessment 134
33 ——  INSURANCE  135RISKS AND  
INTERNAL CONTROL

rIsKs And InTernAL ConTroL
risk management and internal control systems
110
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT331  Risk management and internal control systems
This Section was drafted jointly by several Group internal stakeholders. 
The departments that play a key role in identifying and controlling 
major risks include particularly the Internal Audit, Ethics, Compliance, 
Finance, Risk & Insurance, Legal, Human Resources, Security and 
Mobility Departments.In accordance with the Law of July 3, 2008, this Section was reviewed 
and approved by the Board of Directors on February 13, 2024, 
following a review by the Audit & Risk Committee.
311  Definition of the risk management and internal control systems
a)  Framework
The Group builds on the reference framework and the application 
guidance published initially in January 2007 and updated on July 22, 
2010, by the French Financial Markets Authority (AMF).
The risk management and internal control systems contribute to 
controlling the activities of the Group and satisfy complementary 
objectives.
b)  objectives of the risk management and  
internal control systems
The Group’s risk management and internal control systems seek 
to create and protect the Group’s value, assets and reputation, 
and identify and measure the major risks to which the Group is 
exposed, anticipate and foresee changes in these risks and finally 
implement risk prevention and transfer measures.
In this context, Capgemini has defined and implemented a control 
system that seeks to ensure:
 —  compliance of activities with relevant laws and regulations; 
 —  compliance with the Group’s seven core values, as well as 
the guidelines set by the Board of Directors and/or Group 
Management; 
 —  application by the subsidiaries of instructions communicated; 
 —  the smooth functioning of the Group’s internal control 
processes safeguarding assets; 
 —  the reliability of accounting and financial information.
c)  scope of the risk management and  
internal control systems
Capgemini ensures the implementation of risk management and 
internal control systems covering all consolidated subsidiaries and 
Group businesses in 2023.
Acquired companies are integrated progressively into the risk 
management and internal control systems. There are currently 
no material Group subsidiaries that are not integrated into the 
general system presented in this report.
d)  Limitations
While contributing to the improved efficiency of its operational 
support functions, the optimal use of resources and good risk 
control, this system does not however offer an absolute guarantee 
of the control of all possible risks imaginable, no more than it can – 
irrespective of the skills of the employees performing the controls 
– guarantee alone the attainment by the Group of all objectives set.
e)  organization of the risk management and  
internal control systems
Group Values
Since its creation, Capgemini has placed significant importance on 
compliance with the values and principles which guide and inspire 
its actions and, in particular, its business practices. These seven 
core values, defined by the Group’s founder Mr. Serge Kampf, are 
honesty, boldness, trust, freedom, fun, modesty and team spirit. 
One of these values, honesty, is essential as it is the cornerstone for the rigor and discipline needed to constantly observe the laws 
and regulations and internal procedures governing our activities.
General internal control and risk management 
principles
Group Management has discussed, drafted approved and distributed 
a set of rules and procedures known as the Blue Book. Compliance 
with the Blue Book is mandatory for all Group employees. The 
Blue Book sets out and comments Capgemini’s seven core values, 
sketches out the overall security framework within which the 
Group’s activities must be conducted, and, finally, describes the 
desired behaviors and specifies the prohibitions applicable in each 
of the Group’s main functions.
These principles ensure consistent, efficient and accountable 
decision -making. They concern:
 —  the delegation of decision -making powers and authorization; 
the decision -making process applied within the Group is 
based on rules governing the delegation of powers. These 
rules are regularly updated, comply with the principle of 
subsidiarity and define three levels of decision -making 
depending on the issues involved, corresponding to the 
three levels of Capgemini’s organization:
 –  the Business Unit, for all issues that fall within its remit,
 –  the provisions common to the Strategic Business Unit 
(SBU) and to the Global Business Line (GBL) for all issues 
concerning several Business Units and Business Lines 
under its authority,
 –  the Group (Group Management, Group Executive Board, 
Group Executive Committee, central functions,  etc.) 
where a decision concerns a wider scope than the 
Strategic Business Unit and for all transactions that 
must be decided at Group level due to their nature 
(acquisitions, divestments, etc.) and/or transactions with 
financial impacts in excess of well -defined materiality 
thresholds.
This process has been formalized in an “authorization matrix” which 
requires both prior consultation and the provision of sufficient 
information to the internal parties involved. Recommendations 
submitted to the final decision -maker must include the views of 
all interested parties as well as an assessment of the advantages 
and drawbacks of each of the possible solutions.
 —  the framework of general policies and procedures; the Blue 
Book defines the governance and organization of the Group 
and the main principles and basic guidelines underpinning 
the Group’s internal control procedures, and sets out the 
Group’s requirements in each of the following areas:
 –  Group key principles,
 –  Group organization and governance,
 –  authorization and approval processes,
 –  sales and production rules and guidelines,
 –  risk management, pricing, contracting and legal rules, in 
the client contract pre -sale phase,

rIsKs And InTernAL ConTroL
risk management and internal control systems
111
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI3 –  financial management, merger, acquisition, divestment 
and insurance rules and guidelines,
 –  human resources policies,
 –  Group marketing and communications, knowledge 
management and IT directives,
 –  procurement policies, including ethical requirements 
and supplier selection,
 –  environmental and community policies.
This set of rules and procedures, which has force of law within the 
Group, reminds employees of their obligations in this area and 
inventories the tools and methods which help them control risks 
identified in the exercise of the Group’s businesses.
These rules and procedures are updated periodically to reflect 
the development of the Group’s business activities and changes 
in its environment.
Risk management and internal control stakeholders
The Group developed a risk management system administered by a 
Risk Committee and involving various parties operating at different 
levels of the organization. These key players are presented below 
for each of the three lines of defense.
Governance bodies
The Capgemini SE Board’s Audit & Risk Committee
The Capgemini SE Board’s Audit & Risk Committee is responsible 
for ensuring the existence and monitoring the efficiency of risk 
management and internal control systems.
The Audit & Risk Committee is therefore required to review all 
systems implemented by Group Management. These reviews cover:
 —  the overall consistency of the systems; 
 —  verification that the major risks faced by the Group are 
identified and monitored, particularly by reviewing the risk 
mapping prepared and updated by the Group Management 
Risk Committee; 
 —  the presentation of new or emerging critical risks; 
 —  the review of projects comprising major risks.
The Group risk coordinator presents risk management activities 
to the Audit & Risk Committee at least twice yearly. An updated 
mapping of the Group’s risks is presented during the first meeting 
and a second meeting is held to share an overview of critical risks.
Finally, at the recommendation of the Group Risk Committee or at 
the request of the Audit & Risk Committee, specific sessions are 
organized to present selected critical risks or other risk -related 
subjects.The r isk Committee
Group Management has delegated to a Risk Committee, created in 
2016, the definition and implementation of the various activities 
relating to the risk management process within the Group. The 
Risk Committee, chaired by the Group Chief Financial Officer and 
coordinated by the Risk and Insurance Director, is responsible for 
the effective implementation of a risk management and internal 
control system within the Group. It reports to the Audit & Risk 
Committee on all issues concerning these systems.
The Risk Committee brings together the main members of Group 
Management with key players in the risk management process 
within the Group. At least two meetings are held annually to discuss 
the following main issues:
 —  the monitoring of the implementation of risk management 
and internal control systems; 
 —  the identification and prioritizing of risks; the Risk Committee 
validates the mapping of the Group’s critical risks; 
 —  the monitoring of action plans defined and implemented for 
critical risks; 
 —  the review of new or emerging risks that may be 
communicated by the various Business Units.
The Risk Committee is also responsible for:
 —  proposing to the Board of Directors the Group’s acceptable 
risk level; 
 —  monitoring changes in the Group’s main risks; 
 —  selecting the critical risks to be covered by short -term action 
plans; 
 —  monitoring these action plans in conjunction with the critical 
risk owners, as designated by the Risk Committee; 
 —  approving and implementing the risk management and 
internal control policy.
The Risk Committee builds on the actions of the Risk and Insurance 
Director, who is responsible for coordinating Group risk management 
and the managers of the various Business Units and functional 
departments.
In this respect, the risk management coordinator:
 —  makes methodology tools and approaches available to the 
various management bodies; 
 —  coordinates all risk management activities within the Group; 
 —  centralizes and consolidates all work and particularly work 
performed by the various critical risk owners; 
 —  encourages the sharing of good practices within the Group.
The risk management and internal control system comes from the 
interaction between the Risk Committee and other stakeholders, 
including the Risk and Insurance Department, Internal Audit, the 
Compliance Department and the functional departments with 
risk expertise (Cyber, Security, etc.), as well as the operating 
departments that are responsible for day -to-day risk management 
in their specific areas.

rIsKs And InTernAL ConTroL
risk management and internal control systems
112
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT3Board / Audit & Risk Committee
Top ManagementRegulator
External Audit1st line of defense 2nd line of defense 3rd line of defense
Management
ControlsIT
HR
Legal
Cyber
Procurement ComplianceEthics
Finance
Security
Pre-sales (BRM)
…Internal
Control
MeasuresGroup Risk & Insurance
Internal Audit
1st line of defense: operations and Business Unit management
Operations and Business Unit management supplement and 
adapt the Blue Book drafted by Group Management, by drawing 
up detailed internal control procedures which comply with the 
relevant laws, regulations and customary practices in the country 
where they operate, in order to exercise control more effectively 
over risks specific to their local market and culture.
Operations and Business Unit management duties include the 
identification and control of risks relating to their own environment, 
in compliance with the rules and procedures implemented and 
communicated by the Group functional departments.
2nd line of defense: functional departments with  
risk expertise
The various Group functional departments assist the Risk Committee 
with the identification and ranking of risks. Each department defines 
and rolls out risk control systems in its activity sector and ensures, 
in particular, the consistency of actions undertaken in the Business 
Units. It assists all Group entities by facilitating the sharing of risk 
management and internal control best practice.
3rd line of defense: Internal Audit
In accordance with professional standards governing this activity, 
the Internal Audit function independently assesses the effectiveness 
of internal control and risk management procedures. Irrespective 
of how well they are drafted and how stringently they are applied, 
these procedures can only provide reasonable assurance and not 
an absolute guarantee against all risks.
Internal Audit is therefore tasked with:
 —  reviewing the internal control procedures implemented 
in the Strategic Business Units and their component legal 
entities to ensure that they comply with the general 
principles and rules laid down by the Group and with certain 
specific procedures enabling the elimination or mitigation of 
the risks to which they are exposed locally;  —  auditing the Group’s major contracts considered to present 
significant risk.
For over 40 years, the Capgemini Group has had a central Internal 
Audit function. Its Director reports directly to the Chief Executive 
Officer, guaranteeing that the internal audit function is independent 
of the functions and Business Units audited. At the end of 2023, 
the Internal Audit team comprised 39 professionals (full -time 
equivalent), representing 12 different nationalities. This significant 
internationalization of the Internal Audit team reflects the desire 
to accompany the expansion of the Group into new regions of the 
world; the Internal Audit Department also has a Bombay desk 
with 18 auditors including 4 operational experts specializing in 
the review of IT projects.
In addition, the Internal Audit Department added a team of 4 cyber 
security risk experts in 2023 to strengthen coverage in this area.
Each Business Unit is audited under a 3 -year program covering the 
entire Group. Its inclusion in the annual internal audit plan depends 
on the outcome of the previous audit and its level of risk exposure: 
the Chief Executive Officer has the power to modify this program 
in the event of an emergency (delays and irregularities, major 
divergence from budgetary commitments, etc.). At the request 
of the Chief Executive Officer, the Internal Audit Department may 
also perform special assignments to review specific situations.
In 2023, the Internal Audit Department conducted 46 audits of 
units belonging to all Group Strategic Business Units representing 
55% of Group revenue.
Each audit concluded with the issue of an action plan that management 
of the unit audited undertook to implement as quickly as possible 
in order to improve or correct the internal control weaknesses 
identified by the audit. The Internal Audit Department uses a tool 
deployed across the Group that enables it to monitor in real -time 
the implementation of action plans defined by local management 
following audits. Close attention is paid to actions plans considered 
a priority. At the end of 2023, all actions plans were up -to-date.

rIsKs And InTernAL ConTroL
risk management and internal control systems
113
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI3The Internal Audit Director, who reports to the CEO, presents twice 
annually to the Capgemini SE Board’s Audit & Risk Committee a 
comprehensive report on the department’s work, particularly regarding compliance with the Group’s principles and rules, the 
efficiency of internal control and risk management in the preparation 
and processing of financial and accounting information.
312  Implementation of risk management and internal control objectives 
for the preparation and processing of financial and accounting 
information
These procedures ensure application of and compliance with 
accounting and financial rules defined by the Group relating to 
budgets and forecasts, operational reporting, consolidation, 
financial control and financial communications.
a)  Financial and accounting structure
The Group’s financial functions are integrated into the operating 
structure, that is, both Business Units and countries. They have 
access to common resources encompassing accounting rules and 
procedures, information and management systems and shared 
service centers.
Each Business Unit has a dedicated financial controller (reporting 
to the corresponding Strategic Business Unit’s financial controller) 
who is responsible for ensuring that the results of its activities 
are accurately reported in the accounts in accordance with Group 
accounting rules and methods. The financial controller verifies that 
services are correctly billed and paid, checks profit estimates for 
ongoing projects and assesses their accounting impact, and attests 
to the quality of the information contained in the financial reports 
and accounting packages used as the basis for preparing the Group’s 
consolidated financial statements. The Strategic Business Unit 
financial controllers, whose main responsibility is to ensure that 
high -quality financial and accounting information is reported to 
the parent company on a timely basis, report to the Group Chief 
Financial Officer in order to safeguard the independence required 
when preparing accounting results. Financial control is therefore 
decentralized.
The countries and geographic areas have a Legal Financial Director, 
whose duties and responsibilities include rolling -out Group systems 
and procedures in the country, helping maintain an effective 
internal control environment, ensuring that all financial staff in 
the country or region are well -versed in the Group’s accounting 
policies and methods, checking compliance with local taxation 
and statutory reporting requirements, liaising with shared service 
centers and the Statutory auditors, setting accounts closing and 
financial reporting timetables, signing off on the consolidation 
packages of the subsidiaries under his or her authority, signing 
the representation letter, jointly with the head of the Business 
Unit, and bringing any and all matters that he or she sees fit to 
the attention of the Group Chief Financial Officer.
All financial staff are required to apply the Group’s accounting 
procedures and policies contained in the TransFORM manual, 
which sets out:
 —  the strict rules of internal control; 
 —  what information must be reported, when, and how often; 
 —  management rules and procedures; 
 —  accounting policies, rules and methods; 
 —  performance measures.
In addition, the Group has a global integrated management system 
(GFS), deployed in almost all subsidiaries.
Finally, the shared service centers pool the accounting processing 
resources of the Group’s subsidiaries. The main centers are located 
in Kolkata (India) and Cracow (Poland). These various centers are 
grouped together within a globalized structure.b)  Budgets, forecasts, reporting and consolidation
In order to exercise effective control over their operations, the 
Group requires Business Units to submit weekly, monthly, quarterly, 
half -yearly and annual reports of all budget, forecast, operational 
and accounting information required for the general management 
of the Group as follows:
 —  budget and forecasting process; budgets form the basic 
building blocks in the management control process. They 
are debated and negotiated at length between the different 
Group Business Unit managers and their superiors, with 
each budgetary item decided based on past performance, 
the Group’s chosen strategic priorities and available 
information concerning expected market trends. Group 
Management sets quantified targets for each geographic 
area, Strategic Business Unit and their component Business 
Units. The budget preparation process is a key moment in 
the relationship between the different levels of the Group’s 
management and makes it possible to substantially link the 
variable portion of the compensation paid to Business Unit 
managers to the attainment of the budgetary targets of 
their Business Unit and the next level Business Unit to which 
they belong. A forecast operating Income Statement (for the 
current month, the following six months and the full year) is 
prepared monthly by each Business Unit manager. Variances 
from the budget are analyzed so that any corrective action 
plans that may be needed can be drawn up as quickly as 
possible; 
 —  operational reporting process; information reporting is 
mainly structured by geographic area and business. This 
allows revenues and costs to be analyzed on a monthly basis 
both by type and function, and performance measures to 
be updated and compared with the budget (A/B), the latest 
forecasts (A/F) and prior -year figures (A/A’). A monthly 
management report is prepared for each Strategic Business 
Unit jointly by the manager and financial controller and 
presents a detailed breakdown of actual performance, 
forecasts for the following six months and actions taken 
in the event of material variances between actual and 
budget figures. It is submitted to Group Management. 
Reconciliations are performed systematically to ensure that 
financial information derived from the operational reporting 
system is consistent with the consolidated financial 
information provided by the legal entities within the Group; 
 —  consolidation process; at each yearly or half -yearly closing, 
the scope of consolidation is updated at Group level by the 
Finance Department and validated by the Legal Department. 
Written instructions are issued providing the schedule 
for period -end tasks (particularly the reconciliation of 
inter -company transaction balances), highlighting current 
accounting issues requiring specific attention, and describing 
the control procedures applied during the preparation of 
the consolidated financial statements. Each half -yearly and 
yearly closing is preceded by a hard -close phase based on the 
accounts closed on May 31st and November 30th, respectively.

rIsKs And InTernAL ConTroL
risk management and internal control systems
114
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT3The consolidation process is based on accounting packages by 
geographic area, which must be signed off by the person responsible 
for preparing them. Income statements, balance sheets and other 
key management indicators required for subsequent analysis are 
stored in a single database maintained at Group level. Access to 
this information system is strictly controlled.
During each annual closing period, the Finance Department sends 
out a questionnaire to all subsidiaries covering the application of 
general internal control principles and procedures relating to the 
processing of reported financial and accounting information. These 
questionnaires are analyzed for any irregularities and corrective 
measures devised where appropriate.
c)  Financial information
Financial information and its communication are subject to specific 
controls at half -year and annual period ends. These include:
 —  a systematic review carried out with the assistance of the 
Legal Department of all material operations and transactions 
occurring during the period; 
 —  a procedure to identify, collate and report off -balance sheet 
commitments and any other information liable to have 
significant repercussions on the financial position of the 
Group or one of its subsidiaries at the period -end; 
 —  a review of the tax position of each of the Group’s legal 
entities; 
 —  a review of the value of intangible assets; 
 —  a detailed analysis of the statement of cash flows.
The controls described above and carried out by the Finance 
Department are supplemented by the work of two independent 
bodies tasked with carrying out checks on the internal control 
environment and verifying the quality of the financial statements: 
the internal auditors and the Statutory auditors:
 —  Internal Audit; based on a program covering the Group’s 
Business Units, drawn up in agreement with the Chief 
Executive Officer (to whom it reports directly), Internal 
Audit is responsible for carrying out controls to ensure 
that procedures relating to the safeguarding of assets, the valuation of work -in-progress, the actual amount of trade 
accounts receivable, and the proper recognition of liabilities, 
are applied in each Business Unit in accordance with the 
rules and methods established by the Group. In particular, 
Internal Audit is required to pay special attention to revenue 
recognition methods and to controlling the percentage 
of completion of projects, so as to ensure that these are 
accounted for on the basis of rigorous, up -to-date technical 
assessments. The Internal Audit brief also includes a review 
of the procedures and controls in place within the Business 
Unit to ensure the security and validity of transactions and 
accounting entries; 
 —  the Statutory auditors who, it need merely be noted here, 
carry out a review of internal control procedures impacting 
the preparation and quality of the financial statements as 
part of their audit engagement.
Communicating financial information is subject to rigorous internal 
control, with a particular focus on three key media used to report 
financial information:
 —  the Half-Year Financial Report, the Annual Report and the 
Universal Registration Document; 
 —  financial press releases; 
 —  analyst and investor meetings.
The financial reports and Universal Registration Document comprise 
all the information that must be provided pursuant to legal and 
regulatory requirements and are drawn up under the responsibility 
of the Finance Department.
Financial press releases are only published further to formal 
validation of the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer. 
Financial press releases are published outside the trading hours 
of the Paris Stock Exchange, except in exceptional circumstances.
Analyst and investor meetings are subject to specific preparation, 
and their content is presented to the Board of Directors prior to 
such meetings. This preparatory work is then used as a framework 
for comments and explanations provided by the Chief Executive 
Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, or employees in charge of 
investor relations during the meetings.
313  Measures implemented as part of constant improvements to  
risk management and internal control systems
a)  Focus on the main measures implemented in 2023
During 2023, the Group implemented and continued to deploy a 
number of measures aimed at rolling -out and standardizing processes 
and procedures within the Group that aim to strengthen the control 
environment and enhance risk management within Capgemini. 
Among these measures, the following may be highlighted:
 —  continued internal communication of the Group risk 
management policy; 
 —  monitoring and improvement of critical risk action plans; 
 —  review and completion of the Capgemini risk universe 
with better inclusion of emerging corporate social and 
environmental responsibility issues; 
 —  update of the risk mapping including the identification and 
assessment of critical risks at Group level; 
 —  local review of risks in various countries (France, Germany, 
Italy, Romania, Switzerland, Tunisia, etc.); 
 —  continued roll -out of the audit program for internal and 
external risks at Group operating sites, in partnership with 
an external consultant, covering damage to assets and the 
environment and Health and Safety issues; —  re-assessment of critical cyber risk scenarios in the context 
of changes in the internal and external environment, 
facilitating risk analysis, oversight of mitigation plans and 
incident reporting; 
 —  implementation of technical solutions under the 
three -year Cyber program leveraging 3  pillars: (1) “zero 
trust” architecture (unified identity management, 
micro -segmentation, conditional access to applications), 
(2) building of capacities (greater trained resources, Cyber 
Defense Centers), (3) operational support (anticipation of 
sectoral threats, incident management); 
 —  to ensure operational efficiency, cost optimization and 
alignment with industry leaders’ standards, Capgemini 
has successfully completed the creation of the Global One 
ISO 27001 certification to ensure the attachment of all Group 
subsidiaries to a unique global Group certificate; in 2023, 
progress with aligning all entities has included 80 locations 
in the global certificate; 
 —  continuation of the cyber risk management plan covering the 
supply chain (with our clients, suppliers and partners) and 
acquisitions, with significantly higher volumes;

rIsKs And InTernAL ConTroL
risk management and internal control systems
115
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI3 —  introduction of new mandatory Cybersecurity awareness 
compliance modules, focusing on the latest cyber challenges 
and countermeasures; 
 —  increase in the number of data protection audits of client 
contracts; 
 —  update of the Group Data Protection Policy (Binding 
Corporate Rules, or BCR) to comply with the new requirements 
of the data protection authorities and particularly to address 
the consequences of the European Court of Justice ruling 
C-311/18, known as the Schrems II ruling; 
 —  roll-out of the revised consortium approval process to ensure 
all potential anti -trust risks are identified, assessed and 
managed; 
 —  publication of a new policy and a new Group process on 
embargoes and international sanctions; 
 —  review of corruption risks in the various countries where the 
Group operates and update of the risk mappings and related 
action plans in these countries; 
 —  roll-out of specific accounting and non -accounting controls 
and ongoing monitoring and improvement of action plans in 
the context of the Group anti -corruption program; 
 —  review of the internal control questionnaire drafted by the 
Finance Department to improve risk estimation; 
 —  improved communication between the Internal Audit 
Department and the Financial community to better 
understand any compliance issues and achieve the “zero 
overdue” objective for outstanding actions; 
 —  implementation of 3 -level certification for the financial 
community to ensure professional and efficient risk 
management; 
 —  overhaul of mandatory training modules for all employees 
covering cybersecurity, anti -corruption measures, 
compliance with anti -trust laws, intellectual property, social 
network use and data protection; 
 —  identification of high -risk supply sectors with regard to 
environmental impacts, Health and Safety and human rights; 
 —  annual certification of all Group employees through 
completion of a test on our Code of Business Ethics via our 
Ethics@Capgemini training module; 
 —  launch of a new training module for all employees on the 
Group’s Human Rights Policy; 
 —  further standardization of Commercial and Contract 
Management organization, tools and processes to constantly 
improve the management of contract risks in pre- and 
post -sales phases e.g., more homogenous CCM organization 
across geographies/BUs, global standardization of 
industrialized services where feasible; 
 —  storage of Group account contracts in a single contract 
database as per the agreed internal criteria; 
 —  improvement and roll -out of the Legal Contract Checklist 
(LCC) to ensure the identification of all potential risks 
from the beginning of the call for tender’s process and 
incorporation into the new deal process risk assessment; —  replacement of the Contract Clauses Negotiating Guide with 
the updated and improved Winning Contracts Principles 
(WCP) to align with market norms, facilitate faster and 
effective approvals for any deviations and simplify the 
overall contracting process while ensuring alignment with 
other Group functions (Sales, Delivery, Finance, etc.); 
 —  incorporation of ESG and Carbon objectives into procurement 
processes; 
 —  update of the Supplier Standards of Conduct to align them 
with the Group Human Rights Policy and the ESG Policy; 
 —  mapping of supply chain ESG risks; 
 —  update of a safety and security risk mapping in consultation 
with the Company’s internal and external stakeholders; 
 —  roll-out of a new performance management tool enabling 
constant feedback and increased focus on skills development; 
 —  development of training modules focused on industry 
knowledge and our sustainable development offers; 
 —  provision of an analytics platform and forecasting models 
providing the operations with constant access to HR 
information and enabling proactive anticipation of market 
trends; 
 —  progressive implementation of the new organizational 
structure and related processes primarily aimed at improving 
the employee user experience; 
 —  completion of the initial stage of the overhaul and 
harmonization of expertise in the context of the professional 
community taxonomy; 
 —  set-up of a 360°  feedback program for all VPs, and 
implementation of action plans.
b)  Constant improvement measures in 2024
The risk management process will continue to be rolled out in 
2024 based on the most recent risk mapping updated at the end of 
2023. Close attention will be paid to the consistency of the internal 
audit plan (third line of defense) and the actions implemented to 
reduce critical risks.
As part of measures to strengthen risk management and internal 
control systems, in 2024 the Group will also:
 —  enhance the cyber risk management process, aligning it with 
financial considerations and consistently adjusting resources 
to address evolving threats and impacts. Utilize risk mapping 
conducted at both the Group and country levels to fortify the 
overall cybersecurity posture; 
 —  continue the three -year Cyber program leveraging 3 pillars: 
(1) “zero trust” architecture (unified identity management, 
micro -segmentation, conditional access to applications), 
(2) building of capacities (greater trained resources, Cyber 
Defense Centers), (3) operational support (anticipation of 
sector threats, incident management); 
 —  further advance the consolidation of the Global One 
ISO  27001  certification, by attaching remaining individual 
ISO 27001 certifications and locations presently managed at 
entity level into the global ISO  27001  certificate. Leverage 
the robust foundation of the Global ISMS to facilitate the 
establishment of a Privacy Information Management System, 
ultimately achieving ISO 27701 certification for the Group;

rIsKs And InTernAL ConTroL
risk management and internal control systems
116
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT3 —  further strengthen cyber risk management processes 
covering new disruptive technologies (Gen AI), supply chain 
(with our clients, suppliers and partners) and Security in 
Delivery; 
 —  enhance cybersecurity awareness through the Cyber 
Academy concentrating on specific roles and personas to 
address unique cyber risks; 
 —  launch a new mandatory data protection training module for 
all employees; 
 —  strengthen the various data protection risk control levels; 
 —  continuously monitor new laws on data protection, anti -trust, 
cybersecurity, embargoes, international sanctions and new 
technologies to tailor our program and propose a road map 
adapted to Capgemini’s various activities; 
 —  continue the roll -out of the embargo and international 
sanctions program; 
 —  design a new target operating model for the Finance 
transformation program, embracing all elements of how 
Capgemini will operate with the 3 lines of defense model and 
detailing how it will cut across all operating units; 
 —  tighten the control focus from Country -based to 
Operational -based, enabling a more detailed assessment of 
financial risks and control compliance; 
 —  pilot permanent control reviews (second line of defense) for 
6  countries and 11  entities as a precursor to roll -out to all 
entities in the next 18 months (to July 2025); 
 —  implement for acquisitions the new control checklist 
document that has been signed off (with the Auditors), setting 
out the priority Capgemini controls to be implemented and 
the timescales for each. The controls include full coverage of 
anti -corruption controls as well as TransFORM; 
 —  continue Country financial compliance reviews covering 
anti -corruption risks with the Group Compliance Department; 
 —  pilot level  2  certification Finance training, building on 
level 1 training implemented in 2022; 
 —  continue drafting and monitoring action plans and 
performance indicators for material risks identified when 
mapping non -financial risks and overseeing the duty of care 
plan; 
 —  continue updating local corruption risk mappings in all 
countries where Capgemini operates and drawing up 
related action plans, where necessary; Update the Group 
consolidated corruption risk mapping; 
 —  implement a systemic Group approach to assessing suppliers 
with regard to environmental, human rights and Health and 
Safety risks; 
 —  continue to roll out Declare , the Group’s new conflict of 
interest management tool; 
 —  continue to develop and roll out a program on our 
commitment to the Group Human Rights Policy;  —  develop and roll out a methodology to assess client human 
rights practices and the impact of our services; 
 —  revamp Ethics@Capgemini, our annual Code of Business 
Ethics training, based on the previous year’s improvement 
areas identified through employees’ performance and 
feedback; 
 —  train all Group employees on our Code of Ethics for AI via a 
new training module to be launched in 2024; 
 —  further strengthen and improve speak up (CCM) based 
on training, feedback, and improved tools and processes 
to optimize contractual risk management in the pre- and 
post -sales phases; 
 —  further expand storage of contracts in a single Group 
database; 
 —  investigate AI and other tools to improve efficiencies in 
Legal and CCM and to gain intelligence and insights from our 
contract database to better highlight and manage risks and 
opportunities; 
 —  roll out training on the new Winning Contracts Principles to 
the ExComs, Sales Community, PACE Customer Leads, BRM, 
Finance, Delivery, Legal and CCM; 
 —  continue rolling -out the ESG Pledge with our main suppliers 
to strengthen their commitment and contribution to our 
own objectives; 
 —  establish a supply chain performance measure for the ESG 
risk mapping produced in 2023; 
 —  deploy the new version of the Code of Conduct with our main 
suppliers; 
 —  continue mapping safety risks by country with the assistance 
of Country Security Officers, using a methodology tool 
provided by the Group; 
 —  publish and update on a dedicated and maintained 
intranet site, security policies covering the protection of 
individuals and assets, the protection of information, the 
implementation of client physical security requirements in 
projects and the management of security risks and global 
crises; 
 —  develop a program to anticipate key skills and a training 
program focused on Generative AI; 
 —  complete the third implementation phase for the new HR 
organizational structure and the related processes; 
 —  continue overhauling and harmonizing expertise in the 
context of the professional community taxonomy; 
 —  launch implementation of the Finance Target Operating 
Model solution designed in 2023 across all units to ensure 
consistency across the Finance departments and implement 
fully the three lines of defense model requirements; 
 —  roll out the 2024 phases of permanent financial control 
review to ensure that the full coverage target is met for 2025; 
 —  implement level  2  certification training across the Finance 
departments and plan the level 3 content.

rIsKs And InTernAL ConTroL
risk factors
117
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI332 Risk factors
321  Critical risks
The analysis of the risks to which the Group’s activities are exposed 
is an integral part of the Group’s various decision -making processes, 
whether for short -term annual plans or mid -term strategic plans.In this context, the Group has implemented a systematic and 
dynamic risk management process in order to ensure the proper 
conduct of business and the attainment of the various strategic 
objectives, structured around four key stages – identification, 
prioritizing, processing and steering.
Interviews 
conducted:
— GEB/ GEC *
— Senior 
 Management
— ExpertsObjectives:
— risk relevance
— risk assessment 
 (Impact, 
 likelihood, 
 margin for 
 improvement)The deliverables 
of risk mapping are:
— documented risks 
 (risk register, 
 risk sheets); 
— a criticality matrix; 
— a list of critical risks.
Proposed risk 
registerInitial risk 
register
Proposed risk 
assessmentRisk mapping
Preparatory phaseImplementation
of Group risk
management process
Group Risk Committee 
Objectives:
— validate the proposed risk register
— obtain consensual view on risk assessment
— validate the ﬁnal risk mapping
— identify critical risks
— appoint risk owners for critical risks
Risk level matrixRisk mapping
Validation phaseCritical Signiﬁcant Low CatastrophicImpact
Unlikely Rare Almost certain
Likelihood
Possible29 232117
1619
18 151413
1211
24 262522231
5
48
2728 7
8109
* Group Executive Board / Group Executive Committee.
The Group has an up -to-date and consolidated overview of its 
key risk exposures, including emerging risks, thanks to the risk 
mapping exercise and has defined a specific risk strategy for each 
risk considered critical.
The different risks are presented below by category and decreasing 
order of criticality (reflecting a combination of the estimated 
impact and potential probability) within each of these categories:
 —  strategy and market risks; 
 —  operational risks; 
 —  security risks;
 —  legal and regulatory risks; 
 —  human capital risks; 
 —  reputation risks.
The Group may also be exposed to financial risks (e.g., liquidity 
risk, currency risk, interest rate risk, credit risk or risk relating to 
pensions and other post -employment benefits) which are not 
currently identified as critical. For further information on these 
financial risks, please refer to Section 5 on the consolidated 
financial statements.
The assessment is based on net risk (after taking into account risk 
mitigation measures implemented). Identification of risks
Capgemini updated the mapping of its major risks at the end of 
2023, during which it assessed the risks likely to have a significant 
negative impact on its activity, financial position or results. This 
analysis focused on risks identified in 2022 and on identifying new 
emerging risks.
In this respect, 2023 was marked by several global events, a number 
of which remain ongoing: an unstable global geopolitical environment 
(with, notably, the ongoing conflict between Russia and Ukraine, 
as well as tension between China and Taiwan, the economic crisis 
in the United Kingdom, etc.), an inflationary context, higher bank 
interest rates and the emergence of new uses and tools based on 
new technologies such as generative AI, which could be considered 
an opportunity or a threat. These major events have an impact on 
Capgemini’s activities and are therefore either included in identified 
critical risks or are risk factors that weigh on critical risks.
It remains possible that changes in economic conditions or the 
legal environment could give rise to certain risks not currently 
identified as critical that could impact the results of the Group, 
its objectives, reputation or the share price.
Note that no new critical risks were identified by the 2023 review.

rIsKs And InTernAL ConTroL
risk factors
118
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT3risks Category nature of risks Pages
a)  strategy and  
market risks  — Market downturn
 — Country risks/Political risk & natural disasters
 — Difficulty/failure to adapt services portfolio with sufficient speed to  
address market changes/disruptions
 — Risks related to the integration of significant acquisitions 118
119
120 
120
b)  operational risks  — Loss and lack of cost competitiveness
 — Major delivery service failure 121
122
c)  security risks  — Cyber security risks
 — Occupational safety risk/personal security/travel security 123
125
d)  Legal and  
regulatory risks  —Data protection failure
 — Major contract exposures and liabilities (pre -sale and service delivery)
 — Non‑compliance with laws and/or adverse changes to regulations 126
127 
128
e)  human Capital risks  — Failure to attract, develop and retain key talents and executives 129
f)  reputation risks  — Crisis management failure
 — Unethical behavior 130
131
a)  strategy and market risks
Market downturn
risk factors
Broadly speaking, a major crisis impacting the financial markets or 
unfavourable trends in macro -economic indicators could potentially 
restrict the Group’s ability to attain its objectives and continue its 
development.
Although business and technology spendings have proven to be 
resilient in economic slowdowns, the Group’s growth and operations 
could nonetheless be impacted by the postponement of certain 
projects or a decrease in budgets allocated to service providers by 
our clients, leading to a change in demand in the services market 
where the Group operates, or in one of Capgemini’s key client 
business segments. A continued downturn in the activity of certain 
industries in which our clients operate could also require them to 
reassess their investment strategy.
Other risk factors likely to have an impact on our business model 
and that of our clients are as follows:
 —  the uncertainty around central banks policies in 2024, 
ultimately impacting the cost of debt; 
 —  a new supply chain disruption that could limit our clients’ 
ability to generate revenues; 
 —  local instability with an impact on talent mobility and 
security; 
 —  demand for “digital talents”, resulting in wage increases and 
a high attrition rate.
The possibility of a business downturn, whether global or regional, 
also increases with geopolitical tension in different areas of the 
world (e.g. protectionist measures, multilateral trade tensions). 
Each of these risks, as well as other factors not anticipated by the 
Group, could have a negative impact on its activities, operating 
performance, financial position and cash flow generation.risk management systems
The Group is organized into Strategic Business Units covering 
different global regions and national Business Units (close to their 
target market) in order to quickly understand market changes and 
deliver a timely response to changes in the business environment.
Capgemini demonstrated its resilience during the Covid crisis, thanks 
in particular to its diversified portfolio, cross -functional offerings 
and counter -cyclical contracts. Where possible, the Group monitors 
and anticipates macro -economic developments worldwide and in 
the regions where it operates and analyzes the potential impacts 
of these changes on its own activities and those of its clients.

rIsKs And InTernAL ConTroL
risk factors
119
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI3Country risks/Political risk & natural disasters
risk factors
Capgemini could encounter disruptions or business interruption 
in a country or region, due to the diversity of its locations around 
the world.
Capgemini has permanent operations in more than 50 countries. 
The bulk of its revenues are generated in Europe and North 
America, which are relatively economically and politically stable. Its 
Rightshore® production model involves allocating the production 
of certain services to sites or countries that may be far from those 
in which the services are used or in which the Group’s clients are 
located and particularly India (which alone accounts for around 50% 
of the Group’s total headcount), Poland, Portugal, Romania, China, 
Guatemala, Morocco, Tunisia and other Asian and Latin America 
countries. The consequences of the armed conflict between Russia 
and Ukraine, as well as geopolitical tension between the United 
States and China are monitored internally. In particular, these 
tensions could lead to new sanctions and embargoes at global level.
Certain geographic areas, including India with half the Group 
workforce, are more exposed to the risk of business interruption 
at a given production site following a natural disaster (flooding, 
storms, heatwaves, etc.), the likely occurrence of which rises with 
climate change, or due to an incident making it difficult or impossible 
to access telecommunication networks.
Political violence in a country or even a region, or a geopolitical crisis 
could impact several units operating in the country. For example, 
a political crisis or social unrest in a region, terrorist activities or 
even the consequences of a geopolitical crisis, could potentially 
destabilize the country and our operations in India.
Furthermore, an epidemic or pandemic could restrict activities as 
a result of heath decisions or even reduce on -site activities in line 
with the decisions of each national authority.
The Group’s performance and reputation could be impacted in the 
event of a long -term interruption in its business in any country due 
to one of these various factors.risk management systems
The Group has implemented rigorous monitoring of its major clients 
with the aim of identifying, as early as possible, the faintest of 
signals from the markets where it operates and of its clients most 
exposed to certain risks, such as natural disaster or geopolitical 
instability risks.
In addition, Capgemini closely monitors geopolitical tensions 
throughout the world and any potential impacts on its activities. With 
regard to emerging geopolitical tension in Asia, the Group assesses 
the impacts on its activities with China and the repercussions that 
such a scenario could have more widely at global level, in order to 
react rapidly in the event of a crisis. The Group’s direct exposure 
to China is low.
Following the global health crisis, the Group rolled out home 
working at all its production sites to ensure service continuity for 
clients. For example, all projects in India can be managed while 
working from home.
In addition, beyond the global health crisis, the use of a large number 
of production sites across the globe reduces business interruption 
risk by favoring backup solutions. Production systems and services 
provided by the Group to its subsidiaries are duplicated and covered 
by back -up plans that are tested periodically. For example, 95% of 
critical engagements in India are spread across the country. The 
Group’s Indian subsidiary set up a plan called Business Continuity 
Management (BCM)  to ensure service continuity: all Indian sites are 
ISO 22301 certified. All our critical projects in India have a Business 
Continuity Plan that is tested annually.
Capgemini has a well -defined localization strategy in India, with 
a balanced geographical distribution of sites and a technological 
talent pool. Our resilience is strengthened by duplicated production 
and service systems supported by regularly tested back -up plans.
Telecommunications networks are duplicated. In the event of a 
breakdown in the preferred (fastest) communications network 
between Europe and India, service continuity is ensured by tried 
and tested alternative routes.
Risk prevention and mitigation are monitored by our site 
management teams.
Finally, Capgemini has implemented an audit program of internal and 
external risks at its operating sites, in partnership with an external 
consultant, covering environmental, Health and Safety issues for 
people and buildings. This program is rolled out focusing on the 
Group’s main sites and risks across the globe. Audit recommendations 
are then monitored by the site management team.
Please refer to Sections 4.2.1.2 and 4.3.1.7.or more information on 
this risk management system.

rIsKs And InTernAL ConTroL
risk factors
120
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT3Difficulty/failure to adapt services portfolio with sufficient speed to address market changes/disruptions
risk factors
The adaptation of Capgemini’s service portfolio in response to 
rapid technological changes and new client expectations could 
be too slow.
Ultimately, a poorly adapted service portfolio could lead to a fall 
in Group sales and a downturn in its margin.risk management systems
We are currently addressing the business and operational objectives 
of the various CXOs of our clients (Chief Information Officer, Chief 
Sales Officer, Chief Marketing Officer, Head of Product Development, 
Head of R&D, Head of Manufacturing, Head of Supply Chain, etc.), 
proposing a transformational service offering enabling them to 
meet their objectives.
By regularly adapting and renewing the portfolio of service offerings, 
a specific focus is placed by the Group on incorporating technological 
developments and new client requests. In this respect, we have 
launched a portfolio of generative AI offerings.
The business lines are responsible for defining and steering their 
service offering in conjunction with the Group Chief Portfolio Officer. 
The Group Chief Portfolio Officer and his team are responsible for 
the methodology, consistency and orchestration of the various 
service offerings. This structure provides the Group with the agility 
necessary to incorporate changes in client and market expectations 
and adapt our service offering accordingly. To this end, the teams 
are working on three complementary areas: (1) identifying client 
needs and market expectations, (2) packaging offerings using 
go-to-market tools and (3) rolling out offerings through Centers 
of excellence and training programs for business line leaders, 
Account Executives, vendors and Business Developers.
Risks related to integration of significant acquisition
risk factors
Capgemini regularly acquires companies of varying sizes to 
strengthen its presence in certain geographic areas or complete 
its industry portfolio or service offering.
Acquisitions always comprise a level of risk that may be tied to 
the financial solidity of the target, the complementarity of the 
businesses or the integration of its activities within Capgemini. 
In particular, the integration process may prove more complex 
than predicted, only produce a portion of the expected synergies 
(financial, commercial, technical or human, etc.), lead to the departure 
of key employees, mobilize significantly the teams involved and, 
ultimately, not reach the objectives set and negatively impact the 
Group’s financial results.risk management systems
The Merger & Acquisitions Committee, chaired by the Chief 
Executive Officer, examines acquisition projects in the course of 
identification, selection, assessment or negotiation.
Prior to each acquisition project, the Group performs due diligence 
procedures, notably to analyze the potential exposure of the 
target to the Group’s critical risks, with the assistance of external 
consultants. These audits cover both financial aspects and the 
valuation of the target, as well as tax and legal, human resource, 
governance, compliance, and ethics issues. Specific reviews are 
conducted on cybersecurity and data protection risks.
An integration plan is drawn -up for every acquisition, to anticipate 
and monitor all key steps of the process, from a strategic, operational, 
financial, and human resources dimension during integration 
and consequent handover to the receiving business unit within 
Capgemini. Integration plans for all acquisitions are presented to 
the Group Executive Board in special purpose reports.
Capgemini implements a robust centralized integration process 
founded on strong governance and teams tasked with aligning 
internal practices.

rIsKs And InTernAL ConTroL
risk factors
121
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI3b)  operational risks
Loss and lack of cost competitiveness
risk factors
In a highly competitive environment, intensified by inflation, 
constantly adapting production capacity to changes in the order 
backlog (type and complexity of projects, client’s expectations 
from local to global delivery, increasingly short engagement 
completion periods, tight budgets and outcome based delivery) 
is a major challenge for a service group such as ours.
In terms of competitiveness, the main related risk factors are the 
constant and rapid changes in technology, changes in client business 
strategy, increased production costs, changes in remote and 
global working models, greater automation through generative AI 
powered assets & services, talent availability, increased investment 
in cybersecurity and sustainable development.
In this context, the Group pays close attention to various identified 
risk factors, an increase in which could limit the ability to adapt 
the Group’s production tool. Identified factors include limitations 
currently imposed by certain countries, including the United 
States, on the location of certain resources in its territory, as well 
as regulatory changes in certain countries, notably concerning 
compensation issues. Technological developments could make 
it more difficult to secure specialist resources, increasing the 
cost of these rare profiles and requiring higher anticipation. The 
mastery of key technological assets is also critical for export control 
compliance and to avoid technological debt. Finally, cost increases 
due to inflationary pressure on salaries and operating costs (energy, 
real estate, computer hardware and critical technology solutions 
providers) are being closely monitored.
More generally, the Group may be unable to control changes in 
its cost base, materially impacting the overall profitability of its 
operations.risk management systems
The definition of a good productivity level for our production 
centers is a major issue for the Group. Several initiatives, processes 
and structures exist within the Group to meet this challenge, at 
both human resource and systems levels.
In terms of governance and organization, the LEAD  project places 
greater responsibility on managers to know their markets and 
clients, enabling them to adapt their production capacity more 
rapidly to changing situations.
At the process level, technology plays a key role in the Group’s ability 
to increase industrialization of its operations. To this end, initiatives 
concerning the main production centers (India, Poland, etc.) were 
recently deployed to increase production capacity automation and 
agility. In addition, the Group has integrated generative AI into its 
operational processes to improve productivity and respond more 
effectively to competition and is also defining the critical priority 
Assets & Services supporting its operations to secure them.
At financial and operational level, many actions are implemented to 
preserve our margins and remain competitive: contractual clauses 
provide in some cases for price adjustments and the integration 
of certain cost increases, measures are taken to optimize our cost 
structure (salary costs, operating costs, energy costs, including 
the implementation of programs to produce our own energy).
To manage risk, we have launched initiatives regarding the extension 
of our global production sites, the use of data hub and cloud 
technology, industrial operating models, and shared services as 
well as the upgrading of our generative AI offers.

rIsKs And InTernAL ConTroL
risk factors
122
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT3Major delivery service failure
risk factors
Difficulties in performing services under contractual commitments 
given by the Group to its clients and/or the associated costs could 
be underestimated. This may result in cost overruns not covered by 
additional revenues, especially in the case of fixed -price contracts, 
or reduced revenues without any corresponding reduction in 
expense in the case of certain outsourcing contracts where there 
is a commitment to provide a certain level of service.
Despite the stringent control procedures that the Group applies 
in the project performance phase, it is impossible to guarantee 
that all risks have been contained and controlled. In particular, 
unavailable or limited key project expertise, human error, omissions, 
and infringement of internal or external regulations or legislation 
that are not, or cannot be identified in time, may cause damage 
for which Capgemini is held liable.
Any major delivery service failure could have both financial impacts 
and impacts on Capgemini’s reputation.risk management systems
The Group has developed a range of control methods and processes, 
organized and documented in its Unique methodology, in order 
to ensure the high -quality performance of client projects. Project 
managers are therefore trained and certified accordingly, and the 
Capgemini Group is itself certified (CMM, ISO 9001, etc.).
The Group has devised a formal process to identify and control 
risks associated with the delivery of projects ordered by clients, 
from pre -sale to acceptance and payment by the client of the 
last invoice for the project. In a simplified approach, this process 
differentiates between:
1.  Pre-sale risk control
Decisions to commit the Group to commercial opportunities and 
particularly in fixed -price projects and Outsourcing (requiring 
long -term commitments, sometimes involving transfers of assets, 
staff and the related obligations) are subject to risk analyses and an 
approval process adapted to their size, complexity and expected 
risk exposure. The risk analysis is produced by Business Risk 
Management teams present at the different Group levels. Client 
contract projects meeting pre -defined size and complexity criteria 
are the sole responsibility of the Group Review Board.
2.  Production and quality control
The Group has approved policies for monitoring the proper 
performance of contracts that are applied throughout the life of 
the project to ensure that it runs smoothly.
All projects are reviewed at various organizational levels, on a 
monthly basis.
In addition, the Group conducts specific reviews (known as “flying 
squads”) of projects in difficulty or potentially presenting a higher 
level of risk.
3.  Business control
Depending on its size, each Business Unit has one or more project 
financial controllers whose role is to:
 —  monitor the financial aspects of each project and primarily 
the related production costs compared to the budget initially 
approved ;
 —  permanently control compliance with contractual 
commitments – particularly billing and payment milestones .
 In case of a significant deterioration in financial key performance 
indicators, the Group may conduct specific reviews (known as 
“flying squads”) .

rIsKs And InTernAL ConTroL
risk factors
123
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI3c)  security risks
Cyber security risks
risk factors
Elevated cybersecurity concerns in 2023 reflect growing recognition 
of a complex cyber risk landscape that is impacted by the exponential 
curve of technological advances, interconnected digital economy, 
increasing reliance on third parties and other market forces. Like 
other multi -national corporations, Capgemini is facing an increasingly 
challenging and dynamic cyber -environment in a world strongly 
shaped by geopolitical conflicts, rapidly changing cybersecurity 
threat landscape and evolving regulations.
Malicious entities, including individuals, criminal organizations, 
and state -sponsored groups, progressively employ intricate and 
sophisticated methods to compromise information system security. 
Operating collaboratively and adopting a structured approach, 
they leverage innovative technologies, incorporating artificial 
intelligence and use of cyberattack tool marketplaces. Their tactics 
specifically target human error, misplaced trust, insecure systems, 
and flawed processes, that pave the way for malicious acts such 
as data/identity theft or disclosure and infrastructure breaches, 
occasionally culminating in ransom demands.
Threats persist throughout the entire digital supply chain, with 
cybercriminals targeting digital service providers to infiltrate and gain 
access to their target companies. In today’s extensive interconnected 
economy, there is a heightened risk of the dissemination of these 
threats and breaches to our clients or suppliers, and vice -versa. The 
ability to rapidly isolate from unsafe environments in a controlled 
manner has emerged as a critical operational concern.
Cybersecurity risk and its realization could lead to delays in our 
internal transformation programs, hinder our ability to deliver 
services, and result in significant costs impacting reputation and 
financial results. Moreover, dynamic shifts in laws, regulations, 
and standards at national, European and international levels, 
coupled with client contractual requirements, escalate the risk 
of non -compliance, particularly in the realms of cybersecurity 
(as an essential service provider) and data protection (as a data 
controller or processor).risk management systems
The Group ensures security of its tangible & intangible assets and 
compliance with its contractual commitments & any applicable 
legislation and regulatory provisions, implementing necessary 
and adapted anticipatory, preventive/protection and detection/
response measures with all stakeholders.
To this end, the Group’s Cybersecurity Department is tasked with 
mitigating cyber risks impacting internal information systems as 
well as client facing systems. This dedicated governance structure 
is headed by a member of the Group Executive Board.
The Department constantly monitors cyber risk exposures. It 
comprises three sub -units:
 —  Governance, Risk, and Compliance (GRC): The sub -unit rolls 
out a risk -based and programmatic approach to enhancing 
the cybersecurity posture of the Group. This approach 
involves designing, maintaining and implementing a 
group -wide Cybersecurity Management System; assess 
track and support the improvement of policy framework 
compliance across units ;
 —  Architecture: The sub -unit develops, establishes, and 
promotes architecture best practices and architecture 
principles ensuing “security by design” ;
 —  Cybersecurity Operations: Anticipates, oversees, manages, 
and builds a consistent global response to security 
monitoring, incident response, and remediation .
The Group’s Cybersecurity community comprises of the following 
governance model.
 —  Group Chief Information Security Officer (Group CISO) 
leading the overall cybersecurity ;
 —  GIT CISO (internal IT) is responsible for updating standards, 
projects, solutions and processes guaranteeing security of 
workstations, data, systems, networks and applications ;
 —  the CISO in the Business Units are responsible for the deployment  
of policies and controls in service offerings, client projects 
and their internal information systems. In each country, CISO 
interacts with Data Protection Officer and local authorities ;
 —  Delivery Security Managers of strategic clients, guaranteeing 
application of Group policies & controls and compliance with 
our contractual commitments ;
 —  D a t a P r o t e c t i o n  P r o g r a m :  B r i n g s t o g e t h e r  t h e  c e n t r a l  f u n c t i o n s  
– Legal, IT, Cybersecurity, Operations and Procurement – to 
work on key projects to strengthen data protection and, in 
particular: roll -out and control of policies, incident and data 
leakage management, preparing ISO  27701  certification 
(Privacy Information Management System). A quarterly 
report is presented to the Group Executive Board ;
 —  Security Leadership Committee – To address global and 
transversal cyber and physical threats, Group has set -up a 
special purpose Committee, jointly led by the Group Chief 
Security Officer and Group Chief Information Security 
Officer. Bringing together the Group’s central functions, 
this Committee controls joint initiatives and the necessary 
decisions.

rIsKs And InTernAL ConTroL
risk factors
124
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT3Cybersecurity policies are applied uniformly to all Group entities. 
These are founded on International Standard (notably ISO 27001 
and US NIST- National Institute for Standards and Technology); 
also include components of the NIS (network and information 
security) Directive. They are supplemented by mandatory technical 
standards and security requirements.
ISO 27001 certification is mandatory for Delivery centers and Data 
Centers. In 2023, Group Cybersecurity successfully obtained the 
ISO 27001 certificate and is progressing on aligning all entities 
(existing 86 certificates) under one global ISO 27001 certification, 
for operational efficiency, cost optimization and alignment with 
industry leaders’ standards.
A new mandatory Global Cybersecurity online module was 
launched in 2023, focusing on the latest cyber challenges and 
their countermeasures. Phishing simulation tests are in place to 
evaluate effectiveness of our awareness program and to ensure 
a uniform, standardized, and optimized process across the 
organization. Additionally, these tests are conducted at critical 
client projects as well.
At the operating level we stay highly vigilant about the security of 
networks and critical applications, which are protected via security 
rules meeting international standards combined with proactive 
vulnerability controls and intrusion tests.
Cyber security solutions are deployed and operated 24/7, few of 
illustrative controls are firewalls, anti -malware, access controls, 
encryption, threat and data leak detection, email security. A security 
operation center is deployed; working 24X7 and implemented 
on a “Follow the Sun” model to continuously monitor threats 
to Group’s cyber assets and ensure optimal management of any 
abnormal events and security incidents. This infrastructure and 
the related services are also leveraged to support client to provide 
best practices, thought leadership and crisis management support.
A Cyber-Risk Index is managed to assess exposure to cyber risks 
quantitively from different perspectives: technology obsolescence, 
training & awareness, internal audits findings, user behavior, 
third parties risk management. The index is calculated monthly 
for each entity, aggregated to Group level, and get reported to 
the Management Boards. It is also correlated with several Cyber 
rating agencies assessing the internal management system and 
external internet exposure. This approach forms part of our ESG 
Policy (Environment, Social, Governance).
To keep up with the ever -evolving cybersecurity context, Capgemini 
has significantly improved its cybersecurity preparedness. With 
solid investment in leading Zero-Trust technologies, we position 
the Company among the most mature, at scale, on the market. 
With implementation of Zero Trust Model, identity and application 
management has been strengthened, deterring intrusion attempts 
and reducing its impact. Enhanced cyber security protection 
measures are provided on a contractually agreed basis as required 
in context of strategic and high -risk client delivery.
With regards to business continuity, Group has implemented 
business continuity procedures in the event of a cyberattack or 
interruption to IT services. Group cybersecurity executes crisis 
simulations regularly to review the plans, validates its completeness 
and improves its maturity from learnings achieved in such tests.Cyber security risks (continuation)

rIsKs And InTernAL ConTroL
risk factors
125
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI3Occupational safety risk/personal security/travel security
risk factors
Capgemini is a global leader with close to 340,000 employees in 
more than 50 countries. Capgemini’s employees are its primary 
asset: they are key to the Group and their security is fundamental.
The sudden occurrence of major external events across the 
globe (natural disasters, terrorist attacks, popular uprisings or 
civil wars, banditry, war, etc.) or business travel in geopolitically 
unstable countries or geographically hazardous zones (with a risk 
of accident, kidnapping, etc.) are risks intrinsically linked to our 
Group’s organization and activities.
Even though changes in working practices, i.e., set -up of the New 
Normal procedure and increased home working accelerated by 
the health crisis, can reduce certain risk situations, they may also 
generate new risks particularly for the physical or psychological 
health of the Group’s employees.
Any of these risks may seriously damage the physical integrity 
or psychological safety of employees and could have impacts on 
Capgemini’s reputation.risk management systems
At operating level, entity managers are responsible for the security 
of their own employees and employees made available to them. 
The Group has implemented several measures to limit the impact 
and occurrence of risks to individual safety.
Group Security and the Group Security Center, with local support 
from country security officers, accompany employees and managers 
24/7 during their travel across the globe.
Accordingly, work on client engagements in certain countries 
classified as “at risk” is subject to Group Security approval according 
to Group Review Board directives. Rules and procedures that must 
be familiarized and followed have been drawn up for each “at risk” 
country in which the Group conducts engagements in order to 
satisfy the demands of its clients.
In addition, contracts have been agreed with organizations 
specialized in managing these risks to:
 —  independently assess the level of safety and security risks in 
each country. Accordingly, after analysis, some countries are 
subject to strict travel bans, while travel to other countries 
is authorized subject to some accommodations. The risk is 
regularly reassessed based on the political, social, climate 
and health situation in the countries ;
 —  inform employees of :
 –  the level of risk in the country they are traveling to and 
the precautions to be taken, and any measures to be 
implemented prior to leaving and after arrival ,
 –  the various “at -risk” events at any given time in the 
country where they are going or are already present ,
 –  the appropriate conduct if they are faced with a serious 
incident ;
 —  provide 24/7  assistance to employees if necessary 
(psychological support, emergency medical assistance, 
security, repatriation, etc.) .
All employees working in a foreign country receive specific training 
to raise awareness of specific situations to be taken into account 
during the foreign assignment.
All employee trips to “at -risk” countries are closely monitored 
and compliance with the various clearly defined protocols and 
communiques is verified.
In parallel, Group Security, in tight coordination with CRES ( Corporate 
Real Estate Services ) and local management, monitors access security 
to its buildings and those of its clients.
Employees can download a mobile app to send emergency messages 
in the event of danger or an immediate need. This app notifies 
the Company to accompany employees and potentially provide 
assistance at the same time as local emergency services.
For more information on the Group’s Health and Safety at work 
policies, please refer to Section 4.3.1.7 of this document.

rIsKs And InTernAL ConTroL
risk factors
126
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT3d)  Legal and regulatory risks
Data Protection failure
risk factors
The acceleration of artificial intelligence and the ongoing digitalization 
of businesses make data central to the strategy of Capgemini 
and its clients. Data can indeed be used to better anticipate and 
manage company activity. However, to fully leverage the value of 
data, applicable legal data protection requirements must be met.
Clients are increasingly demanding and expect the Capgemini Group 
to provide guarantees and have significant resources to process 
data on its own behalf and that of its clients in accordance with 
applicable regulatory requirements.
This expectation is all the more important as legislators continue 
to tighten requirements applicable to personal data processing. 
For a long time, this regulatory rigor mainly concerned Europe but 
it has now been extended to numerous jurisdictions. Many non-EU 
countries have adopted laws to define rules applicable to personal 
data processing. This is the case in particular for Switzerland, Brazil, 
Thailand and certain US states. Post-Brexit, the United Kingdom 
adopted its own regulatory framework applicable to personal 
data processing and more recently, India also adopted a personal 
data protection law.
The geopolitical context also heightens the risk of cyberattacks. 
As mentioned previously, since data is central to the strategy of 
most businesses, it naturally attracts malicious parties. Businesses 
(Capgemini and its clients) must therefore enhance their control 
mechanisms to protect their information systems. At the same 
time, in the event of a confirmed incident, both Capgemini and 
its clients are required to notify the authorities of any security 
breaches or data violations. Legal requirements in this area are 
being defined and developed, supported by the set -up of national 
authorities responsible for cybersecurity.
In addition, the Group must make sure that its successive acquisitions 
are aligned with its data protection policies and procedures.
Finally, data protection is now a major component of our Group’s 
ESG strategy. All players focus particularly on the Capgemini data 
protection program to support the approach with regard to Group 
governance.risk management systems
To meet the applicable legal requirements covering the protection 
of personal data it processes on its own behalf and that of its 
clients, the Capgemini Group adopted the Binding Corporate Rules 
(BCR) approved by European authorities in 2016 and updated in 
2019 and 2023 to reflect the requirements of the General Data 
Protection Regulation 2016/679 as well as the changes brought 
about by the Schrems II ruling (C-311/18) delivered by the Court 
of Justice of the European Union invalidating the Privacy Shield. 
The BCR represent our general data protection policy. Capgemini 
undertakes to comply with laws that would require a higher level 
of protection than that defined in the BCR.
This policy is implemented by a robust network of Data Protection 
Officers across the countries and regions where Capgemini is located, 
led by a Group Data Protection Officer. Each member of our data 
protection network is required to complete the mandatory data and 
cybersecurity training program. Over 70% of our Data Protection 
Officers are certified by the International Association of Privacy 
Professionals. This network is supported by champions representing 
the functions and Global Business Lines, who are responsible for 
adapting the Group policy within their respective scopes.
The Group also monitors changes in legislation and constantly 
incorporates them into its compliance program. Accordingly, the 
Group documented the risk analysis conducted prior to transferring 
data from the EU to non-EU countries to comply with the new 
recommendations of EU data protection authorities following the 
decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union invalidating 
the Privacy Shield.
One of the most important procedures defined and implemented 
under the BCR is the Privacy by Design principle. It aims to protect 
individuals by incorporating confidentiality right from the early 
stages when developing products, services, business practices 
and physical infrastructures. Control measures have therefore 
been set up such as processing registers for data controller and 
data processor activities, a defined maximum data storage period 
or the end -to-end assessment of project maturity in terms of data 
protection.
Since it is essential to continuously train employees in data protection 
to build digital confidence, the Group proposes compulsory online 
learning modules for all employees as well as specific training for 
certain functions.
Capgemini has also set up controls to monitor its service providers, 
during calls for tenders and over the term of contracts and limit 
the risk exposure in its subcontractor relations. Faced with these 
challenges, the Group continuously strengthens its data protection 
procedures, especially by taking into account the risks associated 
with generative AI.
Data security incidents and data losses are managed through a 
policy drafted jointly with the cybersecurity team. The purpose of 
this document is to present the rules, controls and requirements 
applicable to all Capgemini entities when managing incidents. It 
also includes risk calculation rules and the escalation process. This 
policy is implemented effectively based on increased cooperation 
between cybersecurity and data protection teams and incident 
prevention mechanisms.

rIsKs And InTernAL ConTroL
risk factors
127
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI3Major contract exposures and liabilities (pre -sale and service delivery)
risk factors
The Group operates in a competitive environment and must take 
certain risks in its contractual commitments. The Group has concluded 
and signed numerous contracts that necessitate compliance with 
strict requirements.
Contractual risks may be high when the Group’s liability for 
failing to fulfill certain obligations is unlimited, or when there is 
no liability protection clause, particularly in relation to services 
affecting Cybersecurity, Data Protection, Health and Safety and 
the environment, and when the rights of third parties are not 
respected. It should be noted that unlimited liability clauses may 
be included in client contracts in specific cases, even if Capgemini 
policy is to refuse such commitments.
In a constantly changing regulatory environment, the significant 
proportion of projects to digitize clients’ key businesses exposes 
the Group to new potentially higher liability. These risks include 
and concern data protection and security (see Data privacy, 
Section 4.4.3 of this document) and the development of new service 
offerings (artificial intelligence, Internet of Things, big data, etc.).
Finally, risk can also stem from unfavourable conditions inherited 
from existing contracts negotiated by targets acquired by Capgemini, 
which we have been unable to amend.
In addition to liabilities to our customers arising from failures to 
comply with contractual and regulatory requirements, the Group 
may also incur financial penalties and other losses.risk management systems
The Group has updated its contracting policy and issued “The 
Winning Contracts Principles”,  which identify issues exposing the 
Group to particular risk and which identify the particular functions 
which must review them. In the event of derogation from accepted 
standard positions, prior to accepting such risks, the relevant 
function must raise them at the relevant contract review. These 
principles have been reviewed to ensure they remain relevant and 
properly cover any emerging contractual risks. Criteria determining 
when it is necessary to report to the Group Review Board have also 
been defined for contracts identified by the Group as presenting 
a particularly high level of risk due to their size or complexity or 
if they are subject to particularly onerous terms and conditions. 
In respect of certain risks, the Group Legal Department and the 
Group Review Board are the only entities authorized to approve 
derogating clauses following a thorough review of their potential 
impact.
During the pre -sale phase, the Business Risk Management dedicated 
structure, in conjunction with the Legal Department or the relevant 
functions, is in charge of analyzing the risks associated with the most 
complex projects, including their contractual terms. Throughout 
the contract term, it regularly assesses the risks identified during 
this phase and oversees implementation of the action plans and 
mitigation measures defined, under the responsibility of the Business 
Units. There is a robust review process for replies to tender offers, 
including notably a review of contractual and operating risks and 
the identification of mitigating measures to be implemented.
A procedure has been implemented for reporting information 
to the Group Legal Department on actual and potential major 
litigation and other disputes and government inquiries. A network 
of dedicated lawyers has been created to accompany the Global 
Business Lines, global accounts, major contracts, and the Group’s 
activities in the Financial Services sector.
There are no governmental, legal or arbitration proceedings, 
including any proceedings of which the Group is aware, that are 
pending or liable to arise, which are likely to have or have had in the 
past 12 months a material impact on the Group’s financial position 
or profitability other than those that are recognized in the financial 
statements or disclosed in the notes thereto (see Notes 26, 27 and 
30 to the consolidated financial statements).

rIsKs And InTernAL ConTroL
risk factors
128
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT3Non‑compliance with laws and/or adverse changes to regulations
risk factors
The Group is a multinational Company operating in several countries 
and providing services to clients who, in turn, operate around the 
world and are subject to numerous and constantly changing laws 
and regulations. These mainly include, for example, anti -corruption 
laws, import and export controls, competition laws, data protection 
regulations, sanctions, immigration rules (the Group’s ability to 
relocate resources abroad to serve projects), environmental, health, 
security and cybersecurity obligations and employment legislation, 
stock market regulations (Market Abuse, non -financial reporting) 
or any changes to taxation (e.g., transfer pricing).
The sheer diversity of local laws and regulations applicable and the 
constant changes therein expose the Group to a risk of infringement 
of such laws and regulations by under -informed employees, 
especially those working in countries that have a different culture 
to their own, and to the risk of indiscretion or fraud committed 
by employees. As stringent as they may be, the legal precautions 
taken by the Group both at a contractual and an operational level 
to protect its activities or to ensure adherence by employees to 
internal rules can only provide reasonable assurance and never 
an absolute guarantee against such risks. Rising geopolitical 
tensions and the deglobalization of worldwide trade, combined 
with an acceleration in new regulations applicable to the Group’s 
businesses in the major regions where it operates, and greater 
complexity, results in increasingly demanding requirements 
throughout the world.
Non -compliance with legal or regulatory provisions may lead to 
financial repercussions or criminal sanctions for the Group.risk management systems
The Group adopted a Code of Business Ethics to strengthen and 
roll-out an ethical culture within the Group promoting behavioral 
integrity. This Code defines, explains, and formally documents the 
Group’s values, action principles and rules of conduct and behavior 
concerning employees, business integrity, commercial relations, 
Group and third -party assets, and Corporate Social Responsibility.
The Group has implemented detailed policies covering anti -corruption, 
conflicts of interest, insider trading, human rights and anti -trust and 
data protection laws. The Group also has a tax policy, cybersecurity 
and personal safety policy guidelines and a program covering 
embargoes and economic sanctions.
The various Group functional departments contribute to the risk 
management system in their activities, calling on a network of 
officers in the countries where the Group is present. Several steering 
committees have been set up to oversee the implementation of 
risk management policies covering regulatory non -compliance.
In particular, the Group has implemented a Compliance Program 
covering the fight against corruption and money laundering, duty 
of care, competition, sanctions, and embargoes as well as data 
protection. This Program is facilitated by a Compliance Committee 
headed by the Compliance Officer in close conjunction with the 
Legal Department, which monitors and coordinates the actions of 
the various functions relating to these regulatory issues. A global 
network of local Ethics & Compliance Officers located in the Group’s 
main geographies assists the Compliance Department and the 
Ethics Department in implementing their policies.
The Group also has a Legal Department with an established presence 
both at Group level and in the main geographic areas. Its role is to 
monitor changes in legislation relevant to the Group’s contractual 
and corporate activities and provide training in the main legal issues.
For more information on governance and the Group’s management 
policy for non -compliance risks, please refer to Section 4.4 of this 
Universal Registration Document. A description of the procedures 
adopted to implement and comply with financial and accounting 
rules is also presented in Section 3.1.2. Finally, Group governance 
and initiatives managing Health and Safety risks and risks relating 
to labor law regulations are presented in Section 4.3.

rIsKs And InTernAL ConTroL
risk factors
129
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI3e)  human Capital risks
Failure to attract, develop and retain key talents and executives
risk factors
Most of the Group’s value is founded on its human capital and its 
ability to attract, train, and retain employees with the technical 
expertise necessary to the performance of the projects on which 
they work. In particular, this requires a strong reputation in the 
employment market, ensuring fair appraisal and promotion 
procedures as well as the professional development and retention 
of our employees and continuously monitoring employee well -being 
in a rapidly changing context.
The development of new services based on mastering new 
technologies (cloud, digitization, artificial intelligence, etc.) in a 
highly competitive environment can create tension in the talent 
market for certain types of profile or certain expertise. This tension 
can be aggravated by salary inflation.
The loss of talent or a team could also follow accidental events, an 
acquisition or a change in Group or entity management.
Similarly, the Group could be affected by the unexpected departure 
of experienced managers, impacting the governance of certain 
activities or the operational management of projects conducted 
for the Group’s strategic clients.
Failure by Capgemini to attract, develop and retain its talent could 
eventually hinder the Group in achieving its strategic goals or 
developing its business and client portfolio and could ultimately 
impair its financial results and corporate value.risk management systems
The Group pays close attention to internal communication, diversity, 
equal opportunity and good working conditions and to the quality 
of its Human Capital Management and employee commitment. 
The Group has therefore rolled out a continuous internal survey 
worldwide (Pulse) aimed at measuring commitment and expectations 
among the Group’s employees. This survey is an appraisal tool and 
specific action plans are established based on identified results.
The engagement and sense of belonging of Group employees are 
closely monitored, notably as part of changes in working conditions 
following the health crisis and the development of home working. 
The New Normal project has resulted in long -term changes to our 
method of working individually or as a team, by offering a new flexible 
working arrangement based on an improved work/life balance 
(e.g., drafting of a Group policy to guarantee flexibility at work).
We also believe that it is our responsibility to support the well -being 
of our employees in our hybrid work environment and identify 
sources of improvement or development. We therefore built a 
baseline platform dedicated to employee well -being, the Virtual 
Well-Being Hub, and a well -being policy, the Group Well-Being 
Policy. Through these initiatives, we can support our employees 
in a proactive and responsive manner and offer a dynamic, healthy 
and sustainable organization.
Furthermore, our human resources management information system 
rolled out globally by the Group Human Resources Department 
ensures the comprehensive management of all processes concerning 
the management of high -performing individuals and enabling a 
uniform approach to monitoring performance, compensation 
packages (benchmarks and market analyses), the career plans of 
our employees, the management of international mobility and 
succession plans, in a manner consistent with the strategic objectives 
of the Group and the interests of our clients. Adapting employee 
skills in line with changes in technology and market requirements 
is at the core of our business and anticipating talent shortages in 
certain areas of expertise (such as SAP or generative AI) is key. 
Training and the emphasis placed on skills development, identifying 
and retaining talent over the long -term and employee mobility, 
founded on career and succession management, are therefore at 
the heart of our talent management strategy.
The Group has implemented several measures to limit the impact 
and occurrence of risks to individual safety. (See Personal security 
and occupational safety risks, Section 4.3.1.7. of this document).
For more information on the Group’s human resources policies, 
please refer to Section 4.3.1.3 of this document.

rIsKs And InTernAL ConTroL
risk factors
130
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT3f)  reputation risks
Crisis management failure
risk factors
Numerous events of varying nature could arise and lead to a major 
crisis for the Group. Through benchmark and observation of crises 
arisen in international companies these last years, it seems that 
most of them, causing significant damages, are mainly related to 
“bad buzz” and reputation -related issues, sensitive and personal 
data leak, cyberattacks, geopolitical tensions and natural disasters.
The Group’s image (in traditional media, social media, etc.) is 
important and a failure in the crisis management process (late 
decision or reaction, failure to reply to the media, etc.) could seriously 
damage the Group’s key assets, that is its employees, tangible or 
intangible assets and reputation. This could therefore affect the 
Group’s credibility and trust with clients and third parties in general, 
and accordingly, its ability to maintain or develop certain activities.risk management systems
All the risk management systems set out in this document and 
mainly those relating to employee safety, project performance, 
information systems and service continuity contribute to preventing 
the risk of crisis management failure and significantly reduce the 
Group’s exposure to reputation risk, amongst others.
In particular, since 2011, the Group has implemented a solution 
for measuring and monitoring conversations on Group brands on 
social media. Internal social media may also be monitored to best 
respond to employee comments. Finally, in order to strengthen 
governance rules covering the activities of Group employees on 
internal and external social media, a social media code of conduct 
was also issued, and a related mandatory e -learning module is 
accessible from the intranet website.
As a listed company on the Paris Stock Exchange and a global leader 
in its business sector, the Group is frequently called upon by the 
media and the financial community to provide information on its 
activities. Therefore, to control and limit risks to its reputation, 
only persons duly authorized by Group Management are permitted 
to speak on behalf of the Group.
Since 2020, the Group is working on establishing a general approach 
consistent with the best practices and crisis -related norms. In 
2021, the creation of a Security department at Group level mainly 
sought to strengthen governance. In 2022 and 2023, the Group 
consolidated the organization and implementation of crisis 
management guidelines to enable a rapid and effective response 
to major and sensitive events in the Group support functions and, 
in the countries, where the Group is present. From 2024, a Group 
Crisis Management Plan considered as general guidelines to be 
rolled -out across the countries will be published. Dedicated staff 
in the Group’s countries will be appraised of this crisis management 
system and a first crisis simulation – involving Group and countries – 
will be conducted to test the effectiveness of the organization and 
processes defined. To this end, the department intends to capitalize 
on the operational crisis management capabilities demonstrated 
daily by the Group, as well as the lessons learned from recent crises, 
which demonstrated the Group’s resilience know -how.

rIsKs And InTernAL ConTroL
risk factors
131
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI3Unethical behavior
risk factors
At Capgemini, ethics extend beyond legal requirements. They 
also relate to the Company’s role, its values and its culture. We 
recognize that ethics may be influenced by changes in mentalities 
that express new societal expectations and that may require 
behavioral changes within companies, in many cases before these 
become law. Examples include exemplary management conduct, 
respect for employees, and the fairness of decisions concerning 
them, management of conflicts of interest, the requirement for 
transparency in internal communications, and the purpose of the 
products and services we provide.
Changes in our offering portfolio, for example, notably relating to 
the growing use of artificial intelligence, raise new ethical issues.
Unethical behavior could have a significant impact on our reputation 
and brand as well as on our financial performance (due to litigation 
and costly fines). It could also undermine our position as an employer 
of choice and the commitment of our employees as well as that of 
our external stakeholders, who increasingly support companies with 
a strong ethical culture. Finally, unethical behavior in Capgemini’s 
businesses or commercial relations that impacts individuals, could 
also have a negative effect on the respect of human rights.risk management systems
Capgemini has operated according to seven core values since its 
creation in 1967. While these core values include honesty and 
trust, the Group is not immune to displays of unethical behavior 
by employees and managers, and such actions could cause lasting 
damage to the Group’s reputation. The Group therefore put in place 
an independent “Ethics” function in 2009 to maintain and foster 
our ethical culture and constantly improve our ethical approach, 
both within the organization, and in dealings with third parties.
In 2023, for the eleventh year running, Capgemini was recognized 
as One of the World’s Most Ethical Companies® by the Ethisphere 
Institute. This recognition is awarded to companies that adopt 
long -term responsible strategies and play a key role in driving 
positive change in business practices and civil society internationally.
The Group’s Ethics function reports to the Chief Ethics Officer, 
who in turn reports directly to the Chief Executive Officer. This 
department is supported at local level by a network of Ethics 
& Compliance Officers. The Ethics Department is tasked with 
promoting the Group’s core values, fostering an ethical culture, 
and driving the implementation of Capgemini’s commitment to 
human rights through a dedicated program.
The Group’s Code of Business Ethics sets out the cultural reflexes 
already firmly embedded in Capgemini. It is supplemented by detailed 
guidelines, notably on our commitment to respecting human rights, 
to promoting our “speaking up culture”, to managing conflicts of 
interest, and to proposing ethical artificial intelligence solutions.
As a services company, the Capgemini Group is fully committed to 
protecting and promoting human rights within its own workforce, 
supply chain, and its relations with its clients and the local 
communities in which it operates. Our human rights policy sets 
out this commitment to key human rights issues.
All employees receive training on the Code of Business Ethics 
through an e -learning program, completely revamped in 2020 
and now assigned annually: Ethics@Capgemini. This e -learning is 
introduced by a video from our Chief Executive Officer and presents 
our values and ethical principles using a modern and modular 
approach. It includes additional modules focused on key ethical 
issues such as understanding conflicts of interest, speaking -up and 
non -retaliation, and ensuring a harassment -free work environment 
(including prevention of sexual harassment and discrimination). In 
January 2023, a new module on our human rights commitments 
was launched alongside the new Ethics@Capgemini campaign 
for all employees. This module raises awareness of Capgemini’s 
human rights commitments and how they are implemented across 
the Company. Through these training sessions, all employees 
acknowledge that they have received the Group’s policies (Code of 
Business Ethics, SpeakUp , Conflicts of Interest, and Human Rights 
policies) and undertake to follow the guidelines set out in these 
policies. Frequent additional training sessions, both face -to-face 
and via webinars, are held at local level by the Ethics & Compliance 
Officers to raise employee and manager awareness of appropriate 
– and inappropriate – behaviors, both within the Company and 
with external stakeholders.
In 2022, Capgemini developed a human rights assessment 
questionnaire for each country to examine all aspects of our 
operations and assess where there is more exposure to human 
rights impacts. This assessment questionnaire aims to provide 
a broad understanding of the actions already implemented and 
identify gaps and areas for progress with regard to promoting and 
protecting human rights. A pilot test has already been conducted 
in India, which accounts for 50% of our workforce, and the human 
rights assessment questionnaire is currently being deployed in 
other countries.

rIsKs And InTernAL ConTroL
risk factors
132
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT3Capgemini communicates regularly on the Group’s values and 
its “zero tolerance” policy towards unethical behavior. The “tone 
from the top” of leaders and managers on the importance of our 
values and alignment with ethical principles is promoted and 
communicated at all levels of the organization.
The Group’s ethical helpline, SpeakUp , enables employees and all 
external stakeholders to report unethical behavior related to the 
Group’s activities and ask questions to obtain advice when faced 
with an ethical dilemma. All alerts are investigated by the Ethics 
Department and its local officers (General Counsels, Ethics & 
Compliance Officers, SpeakUp  investigators). Substantiated alerts 
result in appropriate sanctions.
The management of conflicts of interest in line with our Conflicts 
of Interest policy was strengthened with the implementation of 
a specific tool, Declare , rolled out across 39 countries in 2023 to 
cover ~93% of the Group’s workforce. It will continue to be rolled 
out across remaining countries in 2024.
Finally, as an ethical leader, we are committed to ensuring that 
artificial intelligence operates within an ethical framework offering 
tangible benefits, while developing trust in its use. We have 
published a Code of Ethics for artificial intelligence to integrate 
ethical considerations into the development of AI solutions. One 
of Capgemini’s human rights commitments concerns protecting 
human rights through an ethical approach to AI solutions.
For more information on the ethics and human rights framework, 
please refer to Section 4.3.2 of this document.Unethical behavior (continuation)

rIsKs And InTernAL ConTroL
risk factors
133
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI3322  Emerging risks
Faced with a constantly changing world, Capgemini anticipates, 
assesses, and mitigates its exposure to risk. The risk mapping is 
a key tool in this approach, providing an overview of the various 
vulnerabilities to which Capgemini may be exposed. The Group 
identifies and studies weak signals and emerging risks that could 
have a significant impact on its activities or value chain in the 
mid- to long -term. The in -depth analysis of studies published 
by international socio -economic watch bodies, forward -looking reports by insurance and reinsurance companies and information 
resulting from discussions with the main stakeholders is equally 
important, as it helps place these emerging risks in context. As 
Capgemini also helps its clients anticipate and control these risks, 
they represent an opportunity for the Group and are regularly 
reviewed in accordance with the systematic and dynamic risk 
management process described in Section 3.2.1.
emerging risk description risk factor risk mitigation
The rapid 
deployment 
of generative 
artificial 
intelligenceGenerative AI can generate 
content in addition to analyzing 
and acting on existing data.
Generative AI is used in our 
client engagements to analyze 
data and improve productivity 
and can be integrated into 
special purpose solutions. 
It also contributes to 
improvements in our internal 
processes.
According to a study by 
the Capgemini Research 
Institute, around one -fifth 
of organizations expect 
generative AI to cause 
significant disruption and 
nearly three -quarters of 
organizations remain convinced 
that generative AI is an 
opportunity rather than a risk.Generative AI will transform 
numerous jobs and create new 
ones in both our organization 
and our clients’ organization.
From a societal point of view, 
generative AI threatens to 
exacerbate social divides 
and raises challenges for 
democracy and human rights, 
particularly as its workings lack 
transparency and results may 
be inappropriate or biased.We rely on our in -house expertise and 
continue to develop it to create solutions 
based on artificial intelligence, to help 
our clients take advantage of the full 
potential of generative AI while managing 
their risks.We adopt a flexible and 
forward -looking approach to investing, 
alongside our partners, in technology and 
AI.
Our Group has defined a code of ethics for 
the use of generative AI and the related 
contractual principles.
Our vision of AI is driven by our 
ethical culture. As a leader in digital 
transformation, we are committed to 
adopting AI within a framework of trust, 
by developing a Code of Ethics for AI.
This Code of Ethics addresses both the 
purpose of the AI solution and how we 
integrate ethics into the design and 
delivery of AI solutions and services to our 
clients.
We train employees and raise their 
awareness of potential risks associated 
with generative AI through training.
The resurgence 
of social and 
geopolitical 
tensionsAfter decades of economic 
integration, the world faces the 
risk of social and geopolitical 
fragmentation.
Geopolitical tensions, 
intensifying trade friction, 
and increasing sanctions are 
affecting companies and their 
value chains.
At the same time, governments 
are also facing increasing 
pressure due to economic 
constraints, inflation, 
and demographic and 
environmental challenges, 
resulting in growing mistrust in 
society of institutions.Present in more than 
50 countries, the commitment 
of our employees and partners 
could be impacted by a 
resurgence of geopolitical and 
social tensions.
The Group could face risks of 
deteriorating employee safety 
and economic instability in the 
regions where it is present.The Group has deployed its activities 
around the globe to increase its resilience 
in the event of geopolitical conflicts 
affecting one part of the world.
In addition, the Security department 
coordinates local teams to ensure 
the safety and security of our teams, 
implementing crisis management 
processes and deploying tailored business 
continuity plans.
Adopting socially responsible business 
practices to positively contribute to local 
communities also helps alleviate social 
tensions by strengthening links with local 
stakeholders.

rIsKs And InTernAL ConTroL
risk factors
134
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT3323  Corporate & Social Responsibility Materiality Assessment
Non‑financial (ESG) risk mapping
To satisfy the requirements of Article R. 225 -105 of the French 
Commercial Code and the Duty of care law, non -financial risks 
across the Group’s entire value chain, encompassing the activities 
of Capgemini, its subsidiaries, suppliers, and sub -contractors, were 
mapped in 2020. This mapping is also based on the materiality 
assessment.
The methodology, aligned with the Group’s risk mapping methodology, 
is used to assess for each risk a level of impact and likelihood. The 
impact is calculated according to five main criteria: (1) the impact 
on the Group’s objectives and strategy, (2) the financial impact, (3) 
the impact on people in terms of Health and Safety, (4) the impact 
on Compliance, and (5) the reputational impact. The probability has 
been weighted based on the Sustainable Development Goals Index 
per country (first worldwide index to assess where each country 
stands with regard to achieving the Sustainable Development 
Goals) and stakeholder expectations through sector reference frameworks (Sustainability Accounting Standards Board and 
Global Reporting Initiative), as well as an analysis of stakeholder 
expectations. Certain contextual factors such as the health crisis 
were considered as aggravating factors. A temporal dimension 
also plays a role in the assessment of likelihood.
The consultation with internal and external stakeholders carried 
out in 2021 was used to update this non -financial risk mapping 
(ESG mapping) and create a sub -mapping of human rights risks. 
For this update, identified non -financial risks were grouped 
under 12 macro -risks to ensure consistency with the Group risk 
management process and the steering of action plans. The results 
of this work were presented to the Group Compliance Committee 
and the Board of Directors’ Audit & Risk Committee.
The Cross-Reference Table below highlights the Group’s 17 material 
topics, 12 significant non -financial macro -risks (critical or non -critical) 
and their relationship with the Group’s critical risks:
Material topics (2021 update) esG macro risks Group critical risks sections
People engagement  — Deterioration of Labor 
relations
 — Failure to attract, develop and retain key 
talents and executives4.3.1.5
Talent attraction,  
retention & development — Insufficient development and 
maintenance of skills*4.3.1.3
 — Failure to attract, develop 
and retain and/or loss of 
key talents and Executives/
Managers*4.3.1.3
diversity & Inclusive 
environment — Diversity Non -critical risk for the Group 4.3.1.4
health, safety & well -being  — Personal security and 
occupational safety risks* — Occupational safety risk/personal security/
travel security4.3.1.7
digital Inclusion
Contribution to local 
development — Digital Inclusion Non -critical risk for the Group 4.3.3
Climate change
environmental management
helping clients achieve  
their sustainability goals
sustainable growth — Climate change  
(transitional risk)Non -critical risk for the Group 4.2
natural disasters  — Country/political risk &  
natural disasters — Country/political risk & natural disasters 3.2.1
data Privacy
Cyber s ecurity — Data Protection failure*  — Data protection failure 4.4.3.1
 — Cyber risks*  — Cyber security risks 4.4.3.2
Compliance
responsible Purchasing — Non -compliance with labor or 
environmental laws — Non -compliance with laws and/or  
adverse changes to regulations4.4.2
values and ethics
human r ights — Unethical Business  — Unethical Business 4.3.2
* These risks have been identified as priority risks requiring specific action plans.

rIsKs And InTernAL ConTroL
Insurance
135
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI333  Insurance
The Group risk management and insurance policy encompasses 
the identification, estimation, prevention, protection and transfer 
of all or part of the risks relating to individuals, assets and goods 
owned by the Group or under its responsibility, as well as services 
delivered.
The Group’s strategy for transferring risks to the insurance and 
reinsurance market consists in defining global policies taking account 
of local obligations and specific factors, rolling -out international 
programs, seeking cost transparency, using the best local and 
global standards, and maximizing economies of scale. The primary 
objective is to adjust insurance coverage to the estimated maximum 
exposure to each of the Group’s major risks. By way of example, 
this represents, in the case of civil liability insurance, the estimate 
of its own risks and reasonably foreseeable third -party risks in its 
business sector or, in the case of damage to assets, the maximum 
replacement value of the buildings and assets to be insured, as 
well as any operating losses and/or expenditure necessary for 
business resumption.
When transferring risks to the insurance market, account is also 
taken of:
 —  local insurance obligations, regulations and specific risks in 
each country; 
 —  the emergence of new risks; 
 —  changes in major exposure, particularly under contacts 
signed with clients.
Deductibles and retentions are set so as to encourage the countries 
to commit to risk prevention and protection and seek out -of-court 
settlement of claims, without exposing the Group as a whole to 
significant financial risk.
The Group Risk & Insurance Department reports to the Group 
Finance Department and is responsible for the design, placement 
and monitoring of all “non -life” insurance policies. The management 
and coordination of employee benefits insurance is overseen by a 
joint governance body representing the Risk & Insurance Department 
and the Group Human Resources Department, with the support 
of the Procurement Department.
Commercial general liability and professional 
indemnity
This insurance program, which is key for clients, is designed, 
taken out and managed centrally at Group level. Capgemini SE 
and all subsidiaries in which it has a stake of 50% or more (direct 
or indirect control), are insured by a worldwide integrated Group 
insurance program covering the financial consequences of their 
commercial general liability and professional indemnity, i.e., any 
damage caused to third parties within the course of our usual 
business activities, anywhere in the world. This insurance program 
is structured in layers contracted with highly reputable leading 
insurance companies. The terms and conditions of this program, 
including coverage limits, are periodically reviewed and adjusted 
to reflect changes in risk exposure, due particularly to legislation, 
the Group’s activities, new countries where Capgemini operates, 
claims and changes in client contracts, as well as changes in the 
worldwide insurance and reinsurance markets.
Historically, the first layer of this insurance program is reinsured 
with a consolidated captive reinsurance company. This reinsurance 
currently stands at €35 million.Property damage and business interruption
The Group has set -up an integrated property damage and business 
interruption insurance program covering all of its subsidiaries 
worldwide.
Its real estate policy is to rent rather than to buy its business 
premises. It owns little property, except in India where high growth 
and the large number of employees justify owning real estate. 
Capgemini’s business premises are located in several countries, 
and the Group operates at multiple sites in most of them. The 
Group has slightly more than 462 sites with an average surface 
area of 4,078 square meters. Some of the Group’s consultants 
work off -site at client premises. This geographic dispersion limits 
risk, in particular the risk of loss due to business interruption that 
might arise from an incident at a site. The Group’s largest site, 
which is located in India, employs nearly 20,587 people in offices 
in a number of different buildings.
Client and supply shortage risk is assessed and insured to the extent 
possible, based on knowledge of the materiality of the risk and 
the available offering in the insurance market.
Capgemini rolls out an audit program of internal and external risks 
at its operating sites, in partnership with an external consultant, 
covering environmental, Health and Safety issues for people and 
buildings. This program focuses on the Group’s main sites across 
the globe. Audit recommendations are then monitored by the site 
management team. Furthermore, the insurance offer includes 
Group site prevention visits by the specialized departments of 
the insurance firm.
Employee benefits and mobility insurance
The Group calls on specialist companies to train employees with 
a view to preparing their travel throughout the world. Risks 
concerning medical emergencies, personal security, assistance, and 
repatriation of employees working outside their home countries 
are managed centrally at Group level via global insurance policies.
Employee benefits insurance programs (death and disability, 
healthcare, medical costs, life and pensions, etc.) are tied to the 
different benefits received by employees and are generally managed 
by the Human Resources Departments in each country. The Group 
Risk & Insurance and Human Resources Departments are jointly 
responsible for the management and international coordination of 
these programs, with the support of the Procurement Department. 
Decisions are taken jointly by the Group and the countries in 
compliance with the governance structure.
The main objectives are to (i) propose maximum eligible coverage 
to all employees without discrimination (diversity and inclusion), 
(ii) develop a medium/long -term strategy based on risk management, 
including prevention and wellness measures (iii) ensure compliance 
with local insurance requirements, (iv) comply with local legislation, 
(v) develop, standardize and improve current coverage, in accordance 
with the different regulations in the relevant countries and coverage 
standards by incorporating local best practices compared to the 
Group’s risks and activities and optimizing traditional and/or 
alternative risk transfer/financing mechanisms.
Other risks
Crime and fidelity coverage is managed centrally at Group level 
via a global insurance program. Other risks – including motor 
vehicle, transport of goods, and employer liability for workplace 
accidents – are insured locally using insurance policies that reflect 
local regulations.
Some risks are subject to restrictions or exclusions imposed by the 
insurance and reinsurance market.

136
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT3rIsKs And InTernAL ConTroL

137
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI441 ——  CAPGEMINI ESG PLEDGE: LEVERAGING TECHNOLOGY FOR THE BENEFIT OF ALL  139
411   Driving sustainable impact through ESG ambition and policy 139
412   ESG governance and organization 146
413   Value chain stakeholders’ approach and engagement 148
414   Double materiality assessment and ESG risk management 152
42 ——  ENVIRONMENT: MANAGING SUSTAINABILITY CHALLENGES  156
421   Climate change mitigation and adaptation 156
422   Other environmental challenges 184
423   Helping our clients with their sustainability journey  188
43 ——  SOCIAL: ALIGNED ENTREPRENEURS WITH PROTECTION & RESPECT FOR ALL  192
431   Own workforce 192
432   Ethics and human rights 223
433   Local communities 230
44 —— GOVERNANCE: LEADING WITH TRUST AND TRANSPARENCY  236
441		Corporate	Governance,	risk	and	internal	control	 236
442   Business conduct 237
443   Data protection & Cybersecurity 245
45 ——  COMPLIANCE WITH DUTY OF CARE LEGISLATION (DEVOIR DE VIGILANCE)   251
451   Scope and methodology 251
452   Duty of care plan 251
46 ——  REPORTING SCOPES AND METHODOLOGIES  253
461   Alignment with French legal requirements on the Déclaration de performance extra‑financière   253
462   Methodology and scope of sustainable performance indicators 254
463		Table	of	non-financial	indicators	 257
464   Frameworks 265
465		Extra-financial	ratings	and	rankings	 265
47 ——  EXTERNAL REPORT ON THE DÉCLARATION DE PERFORMANCE EXTRA‑FINANCIÈRE   266OUR ESG COMMITMENT AS  
A RESPONSIBLE LEADER

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
 
138
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT4The statement on non -financial performance ( Déclaration de performance extra‑financière ) was reviewed and approved by the Board on 
February 13, 2024, after a first review by the Audit & Risk Committee the same day.

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
Capgemini ESG pledge: leveraging technology for the benefit of all
139
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI441  Capgemini ESG pledge: leveraging technology for 
the benefit of all
411  Driving sustainable impact through ESG ambition and policy
[GRI 2 -22]; [GRI 2 -24]
our conviction: There has never been a better time to mobilize technology and unleash the human capability to address es G 
challenges. We – in business – must leverage our leadership and our operations to speed up a bold transition to sustainability.
Guided by our published ESG policy, which incorporates eight material ESG priorities and 11 specific objectives, we aim to drive positive 
changes in every facet of our operations.
Environment
 —  Priority A: Act on climate change by 
being carbon neutral by 2025 and 
becoming a net zero business
 —  Priority B: Lead to low -carbon 
economic transition by helping our 
clients achieve their environmental 
commitmentsSocial
 —  Priority C: Relentlessly invest in our 
talents through a unique experience, 
developing tomorrow’s skills
 —  Priority D: Enhance a diverse, 
inclusive and hybrid work 
environment
 —  Priority E: Support digital inclusion in 
our communitiesGovernance
 —  Priority F: Foster a diverse and 
accountable governance
 —  Priority G: Maintain high ethical 
standards at all times for mutual 
growth
 —  Priority H: Protect and secure data, 
infrastructure and identity
In 2021, we published our ESG Policy which is the guide for an 
effective integration of our priorities into the Company’s strategy, 
decision -making process, development of solutions and services, 
and in our relationship with our main stakeholders. It aims not 
only to comply with applicable regulations, but also to incorporate 
national and international ESG best practices and recommendations.
Capgemini is a responsible leader, determined to have a positive 
impact on all stakeholders within our ecosystem.
As a Group, we believe that digital transformation should benefit 
all of humanity and we intend to be a benchmark in terms of our 
contribution to society, for our own activities, and for those of 
our clients. This will see us fighting exclusion, acting to promote 
diversity, ensuring equal opportunities, and preserving natural 
resources. Building a viable and sustainable ecosystem for all sits at 
the very heart of our purpose: “Unleashing human energy through 
technology for an inclusive and sustainable future”.We aim to be the cornerstone of our ecosystem for lasting positive 
ESG impacts. Leveraging the spirit and energy of the Capgemini 
teams, and using our operational excellence, innovative assets, 
and added -value partnerships, we continually increase our ESG 
performance and develop solutions and services to substantially 
improve the environmental performance of our clients. We 
contribute to society by fighting exclusion and promoting diversity, 
by tackling climate change and natural resource depletion, and by 
ensuring that digital transformation benefits all of society. We do 
this both through our own activities and in collaboration with our 
clients for a shared success. We are committed to upholding the 
highest standards of governance and ethics, and fully subscribe to 
the key principles of sustainable development, namely, inclusivity, 
integrity, stewardship, and transparency.

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
Capgemini ESG pledge: leveraging technology for the benefit of all
140
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT4•  Be carbon neutral for our own operations no later than 2025  
and across our supply chain by 2030, and committed to becoming  
a net zero business by 2040• Absolute scope 1 and 2 emissions in tCO2e 153,877 18,916 13,328 √ –80%  
(vs 2019 baseline)
•  Employee Commuting emissions per headcount  
(average total headcount)  
(tCO2e/head)1.08 0.36 0.50 √ –55%   
(vs 2019 baseline)
• Purchased goods and services – Scope 3 in tCO2e 299,887 365,650 349,522 √ –50%   
(vs 2019 baseline)
•  Business travel emissions per headcount  
(average total headcount)  
(in tCO2e/head)1.26 0.40 0.50 √ –55%   
(vs 2019 baseline)
•  Transition to 100% renewable electricity by 2025,  
and electric vehicles by 2030• Total energy use – % of electricity from renewables 28% 88% 96% √ 100% 100%
• Help our clients to save 10 m tCO2e by 2030 • tCO2e savings delivered for our clients – – – 10 m tCO2eOBJECTIVES METRICS 2025 target 2030 target 2019 2022 2023
•  Increase average learning hours per employee  
by 5% every year to ensure regular lifelong learning•  Average completed Learning Hours per headcount at the  
end of the year, trained during the reporting period (in hours)41.9 (C) 51.4 53,8 √ 
• 40% of women in our teams by 2025 • % of women in the workforce 33.0% (C) 37.8% 38.8% √ 40%
•  5M beneficiaries supported by our digital  inclusion programs  
by 2030•  Cumulated number of Digital Inclusion  
beneficiaries (since 2018)29,012 (C) 1,899,744 4,376,777 √ 5,000,000
• 30% of women in executive leadership positions in 2025 • % of women in Executive leadership positions 16.8% (C) 24.4% 26.2% √ 30%
• Maintain best-in-class corporate governance • MSCI ESG rating on Corporate Governance – Rating  
achievedRating  
achieved √Top quartile of MSCI ESG rating  
compared to industry peers
•  Maintain over 80% of the workforce with  
an Ethics score of between 7-10•  % of the headcount (average total headcount),  
with an Ethics score of between 7 and 10– 87% 86% >80% >80%
•  By 2030, suppliers covering 80% of the purchase amount  
of the previous year, will have committed to our ESG standards•  % of new vendors above 50K euros spend committed 
to the ESG Standards enforced by Supplier Standards 
of Conduct commitments– 55% 40% 80%
•  Be recognized as a front leader in data protection  
and cybersecurity• Cyber Rating agencies – CyberVadis score (out of 1,000) – 942 958 √ 940-950 /1000 
Top 3% performer
•  Cyber Rating agencies – RiskRecon score  
(out of 10, 6-month average)– 7.7 (B) 8 (B) √ A rating
•  Cyber Rating agencies – BitSight  
(out of 900, 6-month average)–730 - Basic 718 - Inter -
mediate √740+/900  
Advanced800+/900
Advanced
•  % DPO (number of DPO at the end of the year) certified with 
one of the external official certifying bodies (worldwide scope)– 65% 72% √ 95%
•  % of revenues associated with client engagements triggering 
processing of personal data subject to an end- to-end digital 
maturity assessment – 79% 79% 80%
Scope: (C) Capgemini Legacy; otherwise Capgemini Group.
√ Data identified in these tables by a √ has been reviewed by Mazars with a reasonable level of assurance.ENVIRONMENT
SOCIAL
GOVERNANCEOBJECTIVES METRICS 2025 target 2030 target 2019 2022 2023
OBJECTIVES METRICS 2025 target 2030 target 2019 2022 2023

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
Capgemini ESG pledge: leveraging technology for the benefit of all
141
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI4•  Be carbon neutral for our own operations no later than 2025  
and across our supply chain by 2030, and committed to becoming  
a net zero business by 2040• Absolute scope 1 and 2 emissions in tCO2e 153,877 18,916 13,328 √ –80%  
(vs 2019 baseline)
•  Employee Commuting emissions per headcount  
(average total headcount)  
(tCO2e/head)1.08 0.36 0.50 √ –55%   
(vs 2019 baseline)
• Purchased goods and services – Scope 3 in tCO2e 299,887 365,650 349,522 √ –50%   
(vs 2019 baseline)
•  Business travel emissions per headcount  
(average total headcount)  
(in tCO2e/head)1.26 0.40 0.50 √ –55%   
(vs 2019 baseline)
•  Transition to 100% renewable electricity by 2025,  
and electric vehicles by 2030• Total energy use – % of electricity from renewables 28% 88% 96% √ 100% 100%
• Help our clients to save 10 m tCO2e by 2030 • tCO2e savings delivered for our clients – – – 10 m tCO2eOBJECTIVES METRICS 2025 target 2030 target 2019 2022 2023
•  Increase average learning hours per employee  
by 5% every year to ensure regular lifelong learning•  Average completed Learning Hours per headcount at the  
end of the year, trained during the reporting period (in hours)41.9 (C) 51.4 53,8 √ 
• 40% of women in our teams by 2025 • % of women in the workforce 33.0% (C) 37.8% 38.8% √ 40%
•  5M beneficiaries supported by our digital  inclusion programs  
by 2030•  Cumulated number of Digital Inclusion  
beneficiaries (since 2018)29,012 (C) 1,899,744 4,376,777 √ 5,000,000
• 30% of women in executive leadership positions in 2025 • % of women in Executive leadership positions 16.8% (C) 24.4% 26.2% √ 30%
• Maintain best-in-class corporate governance • MSCI ESG rating on Corporate Governance – Rating  
achievedRating  
achieved √Top quartile of MSCI ESG rating  
compared to industry peers
•  Maintain over 80% of the workforce with  
an Ethics score of between 7-10•  % of the headcount (average total headcount),  
with an Ethics score of between 7 and 10– 87% 86% >80% >80%
•  By 2030, suppliers covering 80% of the purchase amount  
of the previous year, will have committed to our ESG standards•  % of new vendors above 50K euros spend committed 
to the ESG Standards enforced by Supplier Standards 
of Conduct commitments– 55% 40% 80%
•  Be recognized as a front leader in data protection  
and cybersecurity• Cyber Rating agencies – CyberVadis score (out of 1,000) – 942 958 √ 940-950 /1000 
Top 3% performer
•  Cyber Rating agencies – RiskRecon score  
(out of 10, 6-month average)– 7.7 (B) 8 (B) √ A rating
•  Cyber Rating agencies – BitSight  
(out of 900, 6-month average)–730 - Basic 718 - Inter -
mediate √740+/900  
Advanced800+/900
Advanced
•  % DPO (number of DPO at the end of the year) certified with 
one of the external official certifying bodies (worldwide scope)– 65% 72% √ 95%
•  % of revenues associated with client engagements triggering 
processing of personal data subject to an end- to-end digital 
maturity assessment – 79% 79% 80%
Scope: (C) Capgemini Legacy; otherwise Capgemini Group.
√ Data identified in these tables by a √ has been reviewed by Mazars with a reasonable level of assurance.ENVIRONMENT
SOCIAL
GOVERNANCEOBJECTIVES METRICS 2025 target 2030 target 2019 2022 2023
OBJECTIVES METRICS 2025 target 2030 target 2019 2022 2023

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
Capgemini ESG pledge: leveraging technology for the benefit of all
142
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT44111  ESG is fully embedded in our corporate 
strategy and our value creation model
As a key pillar of our strategic ambition and value creation model, 
ESG is intricately woven into our organization.
We are committed to helping our clients achieve their net zero 
objectives in addition to reducing our own environmental impacts. 
As a people -oriented business, we work with our stakeholders to 
have a positive impact throughout our value chain, and monitor 
and reduce potential negative impacts. We are committed to 
Corporate Governance best practices and policies that serve the 
long -term interests of Capgemini and its stakeholders.
We ensure that sustainability is as the heart of our business offerings 
to enable organizations to meet their environmental obligations 
for a sustainable future. Therefore, our new offering goes from 
structurally transforming IT in terms of consumption habits and 
ways of working, to empowering clients to create a culture of 
sustainable digital economy.
We take a holistic approach to identify a company’s emission 
hotspots and reduce their environmental impact. We leverage new 
technologies like Internet of Things (IoT), Artificial Intelligence (AI), 
Virtual Reality (VR), and Analytics to address the environmental 
challenges of an organization, thereby enabling efficient data capture, evaluation and analysis, monitoring and control, and 
supporting decision making.
Our business model is presented in detail in Section 1.3.1  of the 
Universal Registration Document.
In 2023, in our relentless pursuit of sustainable excellence, we 
recognized the imperative of understanding and mitigating our 
impacts. We conducted an analysis, scrutinizing our operations 
through the lenses of socio -economic considerations, carbon 
footprint and biodiversity loss. This rigorous analysis allowed us 
to assess the tangible effects of our business activities and their 
contribution to local communities, employment opportunities, 
and societal well -being. Simultaneously, a meticulous examination 
of our carbon footprint provided insights into our environmental 
impact, enabling us to identify areas for improvement and carbon 
reduction initiatives. Additionally, we delved into the realm of 
biodiversity loss, exploring the implications of our operations on 
ecosystems and undertaking measures to safeguard and restore 
biodiversity where needed.
This impact analysis not only serves as a reflective snapshot of our 
progress, but also as a dynamic blueprint for future endeavors. 
It will be a strong base to set our priorities and objectives as we 
update our ESG policy in 2025.
4112  Committed to help achieve 11 Sustainable Development Goals
In September 2015, all 193 Member States of the United Nations 
adopted a plan for achieving a better future for all – laying out 
a path over the next 15 years to end extreme poverty, fight 
inequality and injustice, and protect our planet. At the heart of 
“Agenda 2030” are the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 
which clearly define the world we want – applying to all nations 
and leaving no one behind.Capgemini has committed to help achieve 11 of the 17 SDGs, as 
we believe that they best reflect our ability to integrate material 
ESG challenges in the way we do business. These goals also reflect 
our commitment to the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, 
which Capgemini first signed in 2004.
We assessed our contribution to 169 different targets to select the 11 SDGs relevant to our business and ESG policy.
sdG Target Capgemini contribution More details
Environment 
Target 7.2 : “By 2030, increase substantially 
the share of renewable energy in the global 
energy mix”  We are committed to transitioning our own electricity supply 
to 100% renewable by 2025 and through our membership of 
the RE100, we are a vocal supporter of the acceleration of 
renewable electricity markets and support our clients in their 
renewable energy transitions. In 2023, 96% of our electricity 
came from renewable sources.
We also help some of our clients implement smart grids that 
handle renewables or move data centers to cloud providers 
that are 100% powered by renewable energy.Section 4.2.1.3
Section 4.2.1.4
Section 4.2.3

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
Capgemini ESG pledge: leveraging technology for the benefit of all
143
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI4sdG Target Capgemini contribution More details
Target 9.4 : “By 2030, upgrade infrastructure 
and retrofit industries to make them 
sustainable, with increased resource -use 
efficiency and greater adoption of clean and 
environmentally sound technologies and 
industrial processes, all countries taking 
action in accordance with their respective 
capabilities” We are committed to working with clients in the public and 
private sectors to increase their sustainability and resource 
efficiency, with a target to help our clients save 10 million 
tons of CO2e. We help them redesign their industrial and 
supply chain footprint processes, implement best -in-class 
planning methods to limit material waste, water and energy 
consumption and CO2 emissions in networks. We also promote 
circular business models through reversible supply chain and 
manufacturing operating models. Finally, we support clients 
in the definition and implementation of their sustainable IT 
roadmap – including more sustainable moves to cloud.Section 4.2.2
Section 4.2.3
Target 11.6 : “By 2030, reduce the adverse 
per capita environmental impact of cities, 
including by paying special attention to 
air quality and municipal and other waste 
management” As a company that employs above 340,000 people, many 
of whom live and work in cities, the decisions we make on 
mobility and waste management can have a global reach. We 
are committed to reducing the emissions and air pollutants 
associated with business travel and employee commuting, 
with targets to reduce GHG emissions by 55% per employee by 
2030 and 90% by 2040. We are also ensuring the sustainable 
management of waste.
We also support our clients in measuring, monitoring and 
improving their environmental performance about air quality, 
GHG emissions, water management and energy sobriety.
To help our clients limit employee commuting, we implement 
remote maintenance of their infrastructures and state -of-the-art 
digital workplaces.Section 4.2.1.3
Section 4.2.1.4
Section 4.2.3
Target 12.2 : “By 2030, achieve the sustainable 
management and efficient use of natural 
resources ” We have an impact on advancing resource efficiency and 
supporting the circular economy, primarily through the 
decisions on what we buy, how we use, re -use and dispose 
of resources. We are committed to reducing total waste per 
employee by 80% by 2030 (baseline year 2019) and to reducing 
to zero the amount of waste that goes to landfill.
At the same time, we support clients in monitoring and 
reducing their natural resources impacts.Section 4.2.2.1
Section 4.2.3
Target 13.3 : “Improve education, 
awareness -raising and human and  
institutional capacity on climate change 
mitigation, adaptation, impact reduction 
and early warning” Our sustainability program is oriented around a goal to drive 
strong action on climate change. We are committed to improving 
education, building capacity, and raising awareness of climate 
change both throughout our workforce and with our clients. 
In 2023, we continued our sustainability upskilling ambition, 
driven by our virtual Sustainability Campus. In April 2023, we 
ran a “Skill Up for a Sustainable Future” global campaign to 
coincide with Earth Day and followed with a re -release of the 
Campus in November 2023 to include role -based sustainability 
upskilling in the context of our new positioning, “Our Business 
to Planet Learning Journey.” We also help our clients launch 
sustainability academies within their organizations, to ensure 
the onboarding and upskilling of their employees, to enable 
a deep sustainability transformation.
We also help our clients in creating a culture of sustainability 
and upskilling their employees by launching their own 
sustainability academies. And we design their role -specific 
processes and metrics to enable teams to action the ESG 
strategy as part of their day -to-day work and ensure a deep 
sustainability transformation.Section 4.2.1.3
Section 4.2.3

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
Capgemini ESG pledge: leveraging technology for the benefit of all
144
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT4sdG Target Capgemini contribution More details
Social 
Target 3.8 : “Achieve universal health 
coverage, including financial risk   
protection, access to quality essential 
healthcare services and access to 
safe, effective, quality and affordable  
essential medicines and vaccines for all” We are committed to providing a stimulating, fulfilling and 
safe professional environment to all our employees and we pay 
particular attention to their physical and mental well -being. 
As we are operating in a hybrid working model it is crucial to 
ensure employees feel navigated and included and part of the 
Company culture wherever they are working from. To this end, 
we have implemented a wide set of policies – personalized 
training paths, feedback culture, helplines, health coverage, 
well -being initiatives, etc. – reflecting our commitment to 
providing a safe environment to our employees to evolve 
and thrive.Section 4.3.1.2
Section 4.3.1.3
Section 4.3.1.8
Target 4.4 : “By 2030, substantially increase 
the number of youth and adults who have 
relevant skills, including technical and 
vocational skills, for employment, decent 
jobs and entrepreneurship” Through our Digital Literacy  programs, Capgemini is  
committed to providing digital skills to the most excluded,  
while providing access to digital tools to the most disadvantaged. 
Our Digital Academy  programs focus on providing specialized 
training in IT and ITES to disadvantaged populations with the 
aim of accelerating their social and economic independence.Section 4.3.3
We have ensured that all our employees in more than 
50 countries have equal access to the same high quality and 
inclusive learning opportunities through heavy investments 
in world -class digital learning technologies. More than just 
providing our people with resources to succeed, we also 
prioritize on -going skills development at all levels of the 
organization to make sure that our employees develop lifelong 
learning habits that will serve them well both at Capgemini 
and in everyday life, while ensuring their employability to 
meet demanding market requirements.Section 4.3.1.3
Target 5.1 : “End all forms of discrimination 
against all women and girls everywhere”
Target 5.5:  “Ensure women’s full and effective 
participation and equal opportunities for 
leadership at all levels of decision -making 
in political, economic and public life” Capgemini has zero tolerance to discrimination and pays 
special attention to potential bullying or harassment of 
women, including sexual harassment. Capgemini ensures 
that women employees benefit from equal opportunities 
of getting hired, trained, promoted and rewarded, and fully 
take part in corporate life and in decision making processes 
at all levels, as equals of men. One of our objectives set out 
in the ESG policy is to reach a minimum of 40% of women in 
our teams and 30% in Executive leadership positions by 2025 
to enhance a diverse, equal, and inclusive work environment.Section 4.3.1.4
Section 4.3.2.5
Section 4.4.1.2
Target 5.b : “Enhance the use of technology, 
in particular information and communications 
technology, to promote the empowerment 
of women” Capgemini is committed to opening Science, technology, 
engineering, and mathematics (STEM) careers to more women. 
To this end, we have several Digital Literacy  initiatives hosted 
under our ACE of STEM program that are designed to spread 
awareness and inspire girls and young women to pursue careers 
in technology. Aside from ensuring a fair representation of 
women among our trainees, we have also designed several 
Digital Academies  entirely dedicated to women.Section 4.3.3

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
Capgemini ESG pledge: leveraging technology for the benefit of all
145
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI4sdG Target Capgemini contribution More details
Target 8.5 : “By 2030, achieve full and 
productive employment and decent work 
for all women and men, including for young 
people and persons with disabilities, and 
equal pay for work of equal value” We have implemented a set of policies around inclusion, Health 
and Safety and continuously engage with our employees 
to measure their level of satisfaction and well -being in the 
workplace.
We are committed to facilitating the inclusion and progression 
of people with disabilities, neurodivergence or suffering from 
long or chronic illness in the workplace.
The Group rewards individual and collective performance 
with a remuneration model that is competitive, motivating 
yet flexible, and offers equal remuneration for an equivalent 
role, level of expertise, seniority, and performance.Section 4.3.1
Target 8.6 : “By 2020, substantially reduce 
the proportion of youth not in employment, 
education or training” We reached above 340,000 employees at the year end and 
14.8% of our headcount is aged under 25.Section 4.3.1.3
Through our Digital Academy  program, Capgemini contributes 
to the upskilling of disadvantaged populations on topics such 
as ITES, web development, cybersecurity, etc. We strongly 
believe that our graduates not only enrich the diversity of our 
own organization but also represent an alternative pool of 
diverse talents trained in top notch skills. Therefore, we take 
substantial actions every year to integrate these diverse and 
talented graduates within our organization, either through 
internships or full -time positions.Section 4.3.3
Target 8.7 : “Take immediate and effective 
measures to eradicate forced labour, end 
modern slavery and human trafficking and 
secure the prohibition and elimination of 
the worst forms of child labour, including 
recruitment and use of child soldiers, and 
by 2025 end child labour in all its forms”
Target 8.8 : “Protect labour rights and  
promote safe and secure working 
environments for all workers, including 
migrant workers, in particular women 
migrants, and those in precarious 
employment” We comply with the Universal Human Rights Declaration of 
1948 and the International Labor Organization’s Declaration on 
fundamental principles and Rights at Work (ILO Declaration) 
refusing the use of forced and child labor and human trafficking. 
Capgemini published its human rights policy setting up its 
10 commitments on particular human rights issues.
We have a dedicated mandatory e -learning module on human 
rights available for all our employees.Section 4.3.1.5
Section 4.3.2
Section 4.4.2
Target 10.2 : “By 2030, empower and 
promote the social, economic and political 
inclusion of all, irrespective of age, sex, 
disability, race, ethnicity, origin, religion 
or economic or other status” We promote the inclusion of all kinds of talents irrespective 
of age, gender, sexual orientation, social background, ethnic 
origin, disability status, religion, or political beliefs.
We actively onboard and promote diverse profiles, with 
40.2% women among our new recruits and 4,015 people with 
disability. In the US, the representation of under represented 
minorities is 15.1% and we have taken the commitment to 
reach 20% by 2025. Our network uniting our LGBT+ employees 
is active in 26 countries.
We encourage all Capgemini employees to contribute to our 
Diversity & Inclusion (D&I) strategy and culture of inclusion 
through their participation to Employees Networks.Section 4.3.1.4
Through our Digital Academy  and Digital Literacy  programs, 
the Group contributes to the economic and social inclusion of 
disadvantaged populations. It includes NEET (Not in Education, 
Employment, or Training) youth, refugees, marginalized groups, 
women, elderly, ex -offenders, people with disabilities, etc.Section 4.3.3

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
Capgemini ESG pledge: leveraging technology for the benefit of all
146
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT4sdG Target Capgemini contribution More details
Governance 
Target 16.5 : “Substantially reduce corruption 
and bribery in all their forms”  Our zero tolerance for corruption underpins our anti -corruption 
program. It is part of Capgemini’s commitment to society 
reflected in the 10th principle of the UN Global Compact, 
which Capgemini first signed in 2004: Businesses should 
work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion 
and bribery. The member companies of this program support 
and comply with ten principles in the areas of environment, 
human rights, labor rights and the fight against corruption.Section 4.4.2.1
Target 16.b : “Promote and enforce 
non -discriminatory laws and policies for 
sustainable development” Since 2015, Capgemini has implemented the Supplier Standards 
of Conduct, which formalize the standards that will be applied 
and enforced in its business relationships with its partners 
and suppliers. The terms of the Standards of Conduct define 
prerequisites regarding ethics and compliance, Corporate Social 
Responsibility, and sustainable development, and ensure that 
our suppliers are committed to supporting our ESG priorities.
In 2021, Capgemini published its Human Rights Policy setting 
up its 10 human rights commitments across our full value chain.Section 4.3.2
Section 4.4.2.4
412  ESG governance and organization
[GRI 2 -12]; [GRI 2 -13]; [GRI 2 -14]; [GRI 2 -16]
Since 2021, we have set up a clear ESG governance and organization to structure and implement both our Group ESG policy, and local 
ESG programs.
4121  The Board of Directors
The Board of Directors of Capgemini SE, the Group’s parent 
company, ensures that long -term value creation for all stakeholders 
is promoted. It has the duty to monitor and steer the Group ESG 
strategy overall, ensuring ESG is fully embedded in the Group’s 
main strategic orientations.
Our ESG priorities and mid -term objectives were approved by the 
Board in 2021 and are monitored going forward by the Board of 
Directors, which can rely on the work of its Committees for this 
purpose.
In particular, the monitoring of the Group CSR strategy (built around 
three fundamental pillars – Environmental Sustainability, Diversity 
& Inclusion, and Digital Inclusion – corresponding to four of our 
eight ESG priorities) has been entrusted to the Strategy & CSR 
Committee of the Board since the end of 2018. This Committee also 
ensures consistency in the consideration of social and environmental 
aspects in the Group’s main strategic orientations. Each year, one 
Board meeting is devoted to monitoring the Group CSR strategy 
and progress made towards our targets, based on a report issued 
by the Strategy & CSR Committee. The Board also ensures that the 
compensation of the CEO and Top Management includes objectives 
and performance conditions in line with our CSR strategy. For 
further details, refer to Section 4.4.1 on Corporate Governance.
The ethics & Governance Committee  verifies the implementation of 
good governance rules within the Group and proposes to the Board 
initiatives aimed at guaranteeing the excellence of its Corporate 
Governance practices. It articulates and prioritizes selection criteria 
for possible candidates to become a Director, taking account of the 
balance and diversity of the composition of the Board of Directors 
as well as experience and expertise present on the Board, including ESG expertise (refer to Section 2.1.3  – Composition of the Board 
for further information). It also verifies that the Group’s seven core 
Values are correctly applied, adhered to, defended, and promoted. 
It ensures that the Group implements an anti -corruption program 
and complies with the rules and conventions governing human 
rights and fundamental freedoms in the exercise of its activities. 
Each year, one Board meeting is devoted to governance, based on 
a report from the Ethics and Governance Committee.
The Compensation Committee  ensures that the Chief Executive 
Officer implements a policy of non -discrimination and diversity, 
notably with regard to the balanced representation of men and 
women in the Group governing bodies (Executive Committee and 
Executive leadership positions in particular). It also makes proposals 
to the Board regarding the fixed and variable compensation of 
the Company’s Executive Corporate Officers, including long -term 
incentive instruments, all of which include ESG criteria (refer to 
Section 4.4.1 on Corporate Governance, and Chapter 2).
Finally, the Audit and r isk Committee  ensures that the major 
risks faced by the Group, such as financial, legal, operational, 
social, and environmental risks, are identified, managed, and 
monitored, particularly through a review of the risk mapping 
prepared and updated by the Group Risk Committee. The Audit 
and Risk Committee is responsible for ensuring the existence of 
risk management and internal control systems and monitoring 
their efficiency. Each year, one Board meeting is devoted to risk 
monitoring, based on a report from the Audit and Risk Committee.
Every year, the Board conducts an assessment of its composition 
and activities. Every three years, this assessment is performed by 
an external consultant. The role and work of the Board of Directors 
and its Committees in 2023 are presented in more detail in Sections 
2.1 and 2.2 of this Universal Registration Document .

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
Capgemini ESG pledge: leveraging technology for the benefit of all
147
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI44122  The ESG organization
Mr. Olivier Lepick, General Secretary, leads a centralized ESG 
team working with key corporate functions, business teams 
and geographies to structure our ESG priorities, monitor our 
performance and progress, guide local teams to speed -up both client 
and corporate innovative solutions, and manage our internal and 
external ESG reporting. He also chairs the ESG Steering Committee 
which proposes strategic recommendations and decisions on our 
integrated responsible business and ESG priorities to the Group 
Executive Board and the Board. The ESG Steering Committee 
comprises nine members of the Group’s Executive Committee.
Consistent, unified, and resolutely client -focused, Capgemini ESG 
organization draws on the Group’s full range of expertise and 
develops synergies between businesses, offerings, and geographical 
areas. Thanks to this unified approach, our stakeholders benefit 
from unique breakthrough ideas combining strategy, technology, 
data science, and creative design.
We value local initiatives and dedicated organizations, such as our 
net zero Board for example, to leverage energies on each of our 
eight priorities. These groups meet regularly to monitor our ESG 
performance and identify improvement areas.
The ESG reporting team shapes and recommends our ESG reporting 
strategy, goals and reporting frameworks.Focus on Corporate Responsibility governance and 
organization
In January 2023, Mr. Cyril Garcia, was appointed as head of Global 
Sustainability Services and Corporate Responsibility. In this new 
role he is responsible for the integration of sustainability across 
Capgemini portfolio of client services, as well as driving the Group’s 
own sustainability agenda. Mr. Cyril Garcia is also responsible for 
Capgemini’s Corporate Social Responsibility activity. He remains 
a member of the Group Executive Board.
Ms Shobha Meera, Chief Corporate Responsibility Officer, is 
responsible for executing the Corporate Responsibility, also 
referenced as CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) strategy for 
the Group. She is a member of the Group Executive Committee 
and reports to Mr. Cyril Garcia.
The CSR strategy, key initiatives and periodic updates are presented 
to and ratified by the Group Executive Board and mobilized through 
the Group Executive Committee and the Country Boards. It comes 
to life through a network of CSR leaders and teams at country -level 
in main geographies and in Business Lines, who in turn orchestrate 
this effort through Employee Resource Groups, Affinity Networks 
and colleagues across the business. Country Boards or equivalent 
management teams comprising of representation from all operating 
units play an important role in leading by example and enabling 
CSR goals and resources in their respective country. Finally, we 
have networks for each pillar of our CSR strategy. It is through 
these networks that we accelerate alignment between initiatives 
across the Group, leverage best practices and amplify our impact 
on society, the planet, and our people.

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
Capgemini ESG pledge: leveraging technology for the benefit of all
148
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT4413  Value chain stakeholders’ approach and engagement
[GRI 2 -6]; [GRI 2 -28]; [GRI 2 -29]
4131  Capgemini value chain
Capgemini’s success is built upon its ability to establish trusting 
relationships with each of its stakeholders up- & down -stream. We establish this communication with our stakeholders on three 
levels: at the Group level, at the level of its organizational and 
local entities, but also at the level of each employee. Capgemini 
has defined and developed an ad hoc  interaction method with 
players in each of these five categories:
PUBLIC
AUTHORITIES
Local authorities,
regulators, legislators, EU
International organizations
(OECD, etc.)
UPSTREAM ENTITIES
Alliances, suppliers, other partners, 
teams (workers) of our suppliers and 
partners we interact with
Market leaders, professional or industry 
organizations, standardization bodiesBUSINESS PARTNERS DOWNSTREAM ENTITIES
Existing clients, teams (workers) 
of our clients we interact with
Potential clients, 
our clients’ ecosystemsCLIENTS
Users of our solutions,
Consumers of our clientsEND USERSShareholders
Banks, ﬁnancial analysts, ratings 
agency, ESG indexes
Long-term relationships / Strong reciprocal inﬂuence 
Occasional interactionsFINANCIAL COMMUNITY
VALUE CHAIN
CIVIL
SOCIETY
Local communities, academics, 
thought leaders, think tanks
Citizens, NGOs, mediaENTITIES 
INCLUDED IN THE 
CONSOLIDATION SCOPE 
Capgemini organization
Employees, non-employee
workers, local and
international works councils
Talent pool, families, alumniPEOPLE

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
Capgemini ESG pledge: leveraging technology for the benefit of all
149
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI44132  Stakeholders engagement
As a committed player in the regions where we operate, the Group 
strives to communicate regularly with all parties including clients, 
suppliers, investors, partners, and members of civil society to 
ensure that digital and technological transformation is a source of 
long -term growth for all. This dialog enables us to offer solutions 
that are best adapted to the needs of each stakeholder whether 
we have regular or occasional interactions.
The Group has set up an Advisory Board, chaired by Mr. Paul Hermelin 
and made up of technology experts selected for their ability to 
deliver a strategic vision and echo the expectations of our clients.
Attentive to what our talents are saying, our Pulse digital platform 
collects comments anonymously through regular surveys. More 
than 140,000 employees provide their opinions every month. 
This allows us to act quickly and at all levels of the organization to 
develop personalized experiences for employees, thus improving 
the Group’s appeal (refer to Section 4.3.1.3).
SpeakUp , our ethics helpline made available to our team members, 
customers, suppliers, and business partners, empowers people 
to report alerts, and ask for advice and guidance about actions 
or behaviors that are (1) not aligned with our values and ethical 
aspirations, (2) not in compliance with applicable laws, regulations, 
and internal compliance requirements, or (3) that may significantly affect vital interests of Capgemini and its affiliates (refer to 
Section 4.3.2.5).
Our global “Voice of the Client” program, covering our priority 
clients, enables us to broaden and deepen the way we assess our 
clients’ experiences in multiple dimensions.
Regarding shareholders, in addition to regular interactions with 
mainstream investors on ESG topics, the Group participated in 
several ESG events as 3 conferences in 2023 to present and discuss 
the Group’s ESG policy, priorities and objectives.
In 2023, the Company’s Shareholders’ Meeting was held in -person 
format, while being broadcasted live on the Company’s website. This 
event is a key opportunity for communicating between the Company 
and its shareholders. This live streaming reflects a commitment to 
openness, accountability and inclusivity, fostering a greater sense 
of engagement among shareholders and stakeholders.
In addition, for several years now, Capgemini has organized governance 
roadshows with its investors prior to Shareholders’ Meetings to 
discuss their expectations and the Lead Independent Director 
communicates regularly with the Company’s main shareholders 
on governance and Executive Corporate Officer compensation 
issues. He informs the Chairman and the members of the Board 
of Directors of any contacts he may have in this respect. (see 
Section 6.5 for more information on dialog with shareholders).
4133  Committed for a positive impact for our stakeholders
a)  share value throughout our value chain
Capgemini ensures that profit value is shared between stakeholders.
67.9%
17.6%
11.2%
3.1%
0.2%
€19 bnEmployees
Public Authorities
The Group (Enterprise)
Shareholders
CreditorsRevenues
€22.5 billion
Purchased goods and services
€3.5 billion
Value added
€19 billion   VALUE CREATION      VALUE ADDED SHARING   
b)  our socio -economic, carbon and biodiversity footprint
In November 2023, we published our first socio -economic and 
environmental footprint assessment of our 2022 activities. The 
objective of this study is to put Capgemini activities into perspective 
in terms of global employment and economic wealth creation, 
carbon footprint and biodiversity loss ( https://investors.capgemini.
com/en/wp-content/uploads/sites/2/2019/05/Capgemini-2022-
footprint-report.pdf ).
This study covers 99% of Capgemini revenues. It provides a  
complete overview of both the direct impacts of our activities 
and the impacts across the entire value chain of the Group. It is 
based on internationally recognized methodologies and tools: the Local Footprint model © using “Input-Output” tables and the 
“reverse matrix” concept invented by Mr. Wassily Leontief, who was 
awarded the Nobel Prize for Economics; the Global Biodiversity 
score developed in 2020 by CDC Biodiversité, and the Capgemini 
Carbon Accounting System, which is ISO 14001:2015 certified.
Based on the main flows injected by Capgemini (restated added 
value, wages, purchases, and taxes), the Group supported  
1.4m jobs worldwide and generated €43bn in Gross Domestic 
Product (GDP). The consulting/technical experts sector accounts 
for 29% of jobs, mainly due to direct jobs at Capgemini (25%) and 
purchases from subcontractors (4%). As the majority of Capgemini 
headcount works in India, agriculture accounts for 31% of induced 
jobs as this industry is labor -intensive in this country.

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
Capgemini ESG pledge: leveraging technology for the benefit of all
150
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT4Capgemini activities contribute mainly to the following pressures: 
climate change, land use and ecotoxicity. Our static impacts represent 
the share of ecological debt for which Capgemini can be held 
responsible. Ecological debt corresponds to the cumulated past 
degradation which occurred between an unaltered environmental 
state and today’s observed altered state of biodiversity. The 
terrestrial realm represents 279 Mean Species Abundance.km² 
(MSA, a metric characterizing the intactness of ecosystems over an 
area), equivalent to the surface area of 3 times Paris. The freshwater 
realm represents 19 MSA.km², equivalent to the surface area of 
15 Olympic swimming pools. The dynamic impacts, representing 
additional biodiversity degradation caused by one year of activity, 
account for a terrestrial realm of 6 MSA.km², equivalent to the 
surface area of 850 rugby fields.
To deal with these issues, Capgemini invests significantly in a range 
of projects to protect and enhance biodiversity, e.g. planting over 
one million trees.
We provide insight into our carbon footprint. Our 2022 data is 
presented against our 2019 baseline year. The information is based 
on the environmental data we gathered from Capgemini entities in 38 countries, which covered 99.5% of our global operations in 
2022. The final 0.5% is extrapolated to report a complete estimate.
Our focus is on ensuring we have the most sustainable buildings, 
that we operate them with optimum energy efficiency, and that 
we transition rapidly to renewable electricity. We are committed to 
reducing both business travel and commuting emissions per employee 
by 55% by 2030, compared to 2019. We remain committed to acting 
beyond our value chain to help limit atmospheric greenhouse gas 
concentration.
c)  our commitments in our policies address our stakeholders 
expectations
Capgemini strives to be a valued member of the communities in 
which it operates. Hence, we have policies in place to ensure we 
continue to operate our business safely, ethically, respecting human 
rights and aligned with the highest environmental and business 
conduct standards.
The table below synthesizes for our stakeholders, how our various 
policies address their material issues.
PoliciesBusiness 
partnersFinancial 
community People Clients end-usersCivil 
societyPublic 
authorities
ESG Policy X X X X  X  
Anti -corruption Policy X X X X  X X
Code of Business Ethics X X X X X X X
Code of Ethics for AI X X X X X X X
Competition Laws Policy X X X X  X X
Conflict of Interest Policy X  X     
Data Protection Policy X  X X X X X
Diversity and Inclusion Policy X X X   X X
Employee Relations Policy  X X X  X X
Environmental Policies X  X X  X  
Human Rights Policy X X X X X X X
Supplier Standards of Conduct X   X   X
d)  other public commitments
We also advocate for and reach out to peers, partners, clients, 
consumers, and the public at large. Capgemini’s commitment 
extends to ambitious national, regional, and global initiatives.
We are signatories of the un Global Compact since 2004.
The member companies of this program support and comply with 
ten principles in the areas of environment, human rights, labor 
rights and the fight against corruption.
1.  environment
We have been signatories of the UN Global Compact’s “Caring for 
Climate” initiative since its inception in 2007.
We are a signatory to the Taskforce for Climate -related Financial 
Disclosures (TCFD), supporting actions to build resilient solutions 
to climate change through climate -related financial disclosures.
We signed a joint letter along with over 170 CEOs to European heads 
of state calling on them to increase emissions reduction targets 
to ensure they reach their net zero target by 2050.We are a member of the RE100, committing to transition 100% of 
our electricity to renewable sources by 2025.
Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) validated our carbon reduction 
targets as being in line with the new Corporate Net-Zero Standard, 
one of the first in our sector.
We are a founding member of UN’s Race to Zero campaign – a 
coalition of leading net zero initiatives.
We signed the Business Ambition for 1.5 °C targets.
We joined the World Economic Forum’s Alliance of CEO Climate 
Leaders, a global community of Chief Executive Officers, who 
catalyze action across all sectors and engage policymakers to help 
deliver the transition to a net zero economy.
We are a member of the EV100, committing to transition the entire 
global company fleet to 100% electric vehicles by 2030, ensuring 
access to electric charging infrastructure across their estate.
We are a corporate alliance member of the WEF’s 1t.org  and are 
committed to planting 20 million trees by 2030 to help fight climate 
change and support biodiversity.

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
Capgemini ESG pledge: leveraging technology for the benefit of all
151
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI4We are a member of the European Green Digital Coalition, a group 
of companies committed to supporting the Green and digital 
transformation of the EU.
We became a signatory of the European Commission’s Sustainable 
Consumption pledge, reaffirming our commitment to acting on 
climate change and increasing the circularity of our business.
We are a member of the LEAF Coalition, aiming to halt deforestation 
by financing large -scale tropical forest protection.
We became a member of the First Movers Coalition for carbon 
removal, committing to contract at least 50,000 tons or $25m of 
durable and scalable net carbon dioxide removals by the end of 2030.
2.  social
Capgemini is committed to protecting and preserving human rights 
in accordance with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the 
International Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental 
Principles and Rights at Work with its core conventions and the 
UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human rights.
In 2020, we joined the “Valuable 500”, a global CEO community 
revolutionizing disability inclusion through business leadership 
and opportunity.We are a member of the International Labour Organization’s “Global 
Business and Disability Network”.
We have been signatories of the Women’s Empowerment Principles 
since 2011, resulting from an alliance between UN Women and UN 
Global Compact.
Capgemini is committed to standing in solidarity with the LGBT+ 
community. In 2022, our CEO signed the UN Standard of Conduct 
for Business, tackling discrimination against LGBT+ people.
Capgemini is a founding member of the World Economic Forum’s 
Partnering for Racial Justice in Business initiative.
3.  Governance
We refer to the AFEP-MEDEF Corporate Governance Code for issuers 
listed on the Paris Stock Exchange since its initial publication in 2008.
We follow the principles and concepts of the < IR> Framework, 
which the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and 
the ISSB assumed responsibility for when the Value Reporting 
Foundation merged with the IFRS Foundation in August 2022.
We have been signatories of the Paris Call for Trust and Security 
in Cyberspace since its inception in November 2018.

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
Capgemini ESG pledge: leveraging technology for the benefit of all
152
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT4414  Double materiality assessment and ESG risk management
[GRI 3 -1]; [GRI 3 -2]; [GRI 3 -3]
[SASB TC-SI-550a.2]
4141  Capgemini ESG risks mapping
In 2021, the Group reviewed its ESG risk (and risks specific to its duty 
of care obligations) mapping across the Group’s entire value chain, 
covering its own activities, its subsidiaries, customers, suppliers, and 
subcontractors, undertaken in 2020 through consultation of internal 
and external stakeholders. For more details, refer to Chapter 3.
This updated risk mapping exercise identified twelve ESG macro 
risks. For each material topic and ESG risk, we set out the policies implemented to mitigate them, and detailed the results of these 
policies through specific key performance indicators.
The Group functions that played a key role in identifying and 
controlling major risks include ESG, Internal Audit, Ethics & Human 
Rights, Compliance, CSR, Finance, Risk & Insurance, Legal, Human 
Resources, and Security & Mobility.
The table below mentions the Sections where those topics are 
described.
Material topics 
(2021 update) esG macro risks Group critical risks Non‑financial metrics sections
People  
engagementDeterioration of 
labor relationsFailure to attract, 
develop and retain 
and/or loss of key 
talents and key 
executives —  Average Completed Learning Hours per headcount 
at the end of the year, trained during the reporting 
period
 —  Average Completed Learning Hours, including 
learning in the flow of work, per headcount at 
the end of the year, trained during the reporting 
period (millions of hours)
 —  Number of external hires
 —  Number of hires through acquisitions
 —  % of annual average headcount voluntary attrition
 —  % of annual average headcount total attrition
 —  Group engagement score – Aggregate average 
Engagement Score (from 0 to 10)
 —  Group engagement score – Actively engaged 
employees (% of the respondents with 
Engagement Score 7 -10)4.3.1.5
Talent attraction, 
retention & 
developmentInsufficient 
development and 
maintenance of 
skills*4.3.1.3
Failure to attract, 
develop and 
retain and/or 
loss of key talent 
and Executives/
Managers*4.3.1.3
diversity 
& Inclusive 
environmentDiversity Non -critical risk for 
the Group —  Headcount at the end of the year by gender
 —  % of women in the workforce
 —  % of women in entry level positions
 —  % of women in junior management positions
 —  % of women in all management positions 
(including junior, middle and top management 
positions)
 — % of women in Executive leadership positions
 —  % of women in the Executive Committee
 —  % of women among new Vice-Presidents (internal 
promotions and external hiring)
 —  % of women in management positions in 
revenue -generating functions
 —  % of women in revenue -generating functions
 —  % of women in STEM-related positions
 —  Total number of headcount with disabilities, at the 
end of the year4.3.1.4
health, safety  
& well -beingPersonal security and 
occupational safety 
risks*Risks related to 
personal safety 
and security —  % of travelers in “medium/high” risk countries, 
who have followed the safety/security procedure 
(Snapshot process)
 —  Assistance Activity – Total number of assistance 
interventions for travelers and/or expats
 —  Number of serious events affecting employees 
to be monitored (terrorist attacks, flooding, 
tornadoes, civil unrest… )4.3.1.7

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
Capgemini ESG pledge: leveraging technology for the benefit of all
153
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI4Material topics 
(2021 update) esG macro risks Group critical risks Non‑financial metrics sections
digital inclusion  
& Contribution to 
local developmentDigital Inclusion Non -critical risk for 
the Group —  Number of Digital Academy  graduates
 —  Number of Digital Academy  graduates hired by 
Capgemini
 —  Number of Digital Literacy  programs beneficiaries
 —  Total number of Digital Inclusion beneficiaries 
(Digital Academy  + Digital Literacy  + Tech for Positive 
Futures )
 —  Cumulated number of Digital Inclusion 
beneficiaries (since 2018)4.3.3
Climate change
environmental 
management
helping clients 
achieve their 
sustainability goals
sustainable growthClimate change 
(transitional risk)Non -critical risk  —  Absolute Scope 1 and 2 emissions (tCO2e)
 —  % of reduction of absolute scope 1 and 
2 emissions (vs 2019 and vs previous period)
 —  Purchased goods and services – Scope 3 (tCO2e)
 —  Total emissions (tCO2e)
 —  % change total emissions vs 2019 baseline
 —  Total emissions per headcount (average total 
headcount) (tCO2e)
 —  % of change of emissions per headcount  
(vs 2019 and vs previous period)
 —  Employee commuting emissions per headcount 
(average total headcount) (tCO2e)
 —  Business travel emissions per headcount (average 
total headcount) (tCO2e)
 —  Total energy use – % of electricity from renewables
 —  Energy efficiency (MWh/m²)
 —  Operations covered by ISO 14001 – % of headcount 
covered (headcount at the end of the year)
 — Operations covered by ISO 14001 – % of sites 
covered (number of sites at the end of the year)4.2
natural disasters Country/political risk 
& natural disastersCountry risks/
Political risk and 
natural disaster 3.2.1
data Privacy
CybersecurityData Protection 
failure*Risks related to 
personal data 
protection —  % of headcount (total headcount at the end of the 
year) who completed the e -learning module on 
Data protection
 —  Number of requests from individuals or organizations, 
exercising their rights under the GDPR
 —  Number of law enforcement requests for user 
information
 —  Number of users whose information was 
requested by agencies and employees responsible 
for enforcing laws, maintaining public order, and 
managing public safety
 —  % of law enforcement agencies requests (annual 
number of requests) resulting in disclosure
 —  Number of substantiated complaints concerning 
breaches of customer privacy and losses of 
customer data
 —  Number of data breaches notified as data controller 
to competent Data Protection Authorities
 —  % of revenues associated with client engagements 
triggering processing of personal data subject to 
an end -to-end digital maturity assessment
 —  % of DPO (number of DPO at the end of the year) 
certified with one of the external official certifying 
bodies (worldwide scope)
 —  Amount paid to individuals or organizations in 
the context of a data protection claim against the 
Company processing their personal data4.4.3.1

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
Capgemini ESG pledge: leveraging technology for the benefit of all
154
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT4Material topics 
(2021 update) esG macro risks Group critical risks Non‑financial metrics sections
Cyber risks* Cyber risks  —  Level of compliance with the Group Cybersecurity 
Baseline Policy (grade out of 10)
 —  % of headcount (total headcount at the end of the 
year) who completed the mandatory e -learning 
module and training program on Cyber risk
 —  Cyber Rating agencies – SecurityScorecard (rating)
 —  % of operation centers and sensitive facilities at 
the end of the year, ISO 27001 certified
 —  Cyber Rating agencies – CyberVadis score  
(out of 1,000)
 —  Cyber Rating agencies – RiskRecon score  
(out of 10, 6 -month average)
 —  Cyber Rating agencies – BitSight  
(out of 900 – 6 -month average)4.4.3.2
Compliance
responsible 
procurementNon -compliance 
with labor or 
environmental lawsNon -compliance 
with laws and/or 
adverse changes to 
regulations —  % of headcount (total headcount at the end of 
the year) who completed the Ethics@Capgemini 
e-learning module on the Code of Business Ethics, 
Anti -corruption policy, and Competition law policy
 —  Number of fines paid as a result of legal proceedings 
associated with anti-competitive behavior
 —  Number of legal actions pending or completed 
during the reporting period regarding 
anticompetitive behaviors and violations of 
anti -trust and monopoly legislation in which the 
organization has been identified as a participant
 —  MSCI ESG rating on Corporate Governance
 —  % of new vendors above 50K euros spend 
committed to the ESG Standards enforced by 
Supplier Standards of Conduct commitments4.4.2
values and ethics
human rights
 Unethical business Unethical behavior  —  % of the headcount (average total headcount), 
with an Ethics score of between 7 and 10
 —  Number of alerts reported on SpeakUp , as per the 
last day of each year
 —  % of alerts reported on SpeakUp , as per the last 
day of each year, that are no longer subject to 
action (closed)
 —  % of alerts reported on SpeakUp  for which the 
reporter’s identity is unknown, as per the last day 
of each year
 —  % of alerts closed that are established/proven, as 
per the last day of each year
 —  Number of discrimination alerts, as per the last 
day of each year
 —  % of the discrimination alerts closed that are 
established/or proven, as per the last day of each year
 —  Number of harassment alerts (including sexual 
harassment), as per the last day of each year
 —  % of the harassment alerts closed that are established 
or proven, as per the last day of each year4.3.2
* These risks have been identified as priority risks requiring specific action plans.
In addition to the above material topics, the Group tax policy is also described in Section 4.4.2.5.
Moreover, the Group has identified and studied the weak signals 
and emerging risks that could have a significant impact on its 
activities and value chain in the medium and long term. (See 
Chapter 3 – Section 3.2.2 Emerging risks).
4142  Double materiality assessment
In 2021, the Group updated its materiality assessments, pursuant 
to which the Group considers economic, social, environmental 
and governance topics to be “material” if they have, or may have, 
a substantial effect on the Group’s ability to create or protect 
value. This is determined by considering their effect on the Group 
strategy, governance, performance, or prospects.Our materiality assessment approach was based on:
 —  the identification of our list of potentially material topics 
(developed in 2018), by analyzing industry sources and 
reporting guidelines (including integrated Reporting, GRI 
standards and SASB standards), conducting media and 
peer reviews and assessing our potential to impact the 
UN Sustainable Development Goals and targets. We also 
evaluated the alignment of these topics and definitions 
with our Group Risk Management approach including risk 
mapping; 
 —  the collection of stakeholder perspectives on these topics 
through interviews with key stakeholder groups (clients, 

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
Capgemini ESG pledge: leveraging technology for the benefit of all
155
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI4investors & analysts, business partners, NGOs & charity 
partners), in order to understand their views on the 
importance and ranking of topics in their relationship with 
Capgemini; 
 —  the conduct of surveys and questionnaires to collect internal 
stakeholder perspectives within management and a sample 
of employees representative of the Group’s demographics, 
with a particular focus on assessing the potential impact of 
each topic on Capgemini’s ability to create and protect value.
This exercise demonstrates a strong level of alignment between the 
views of internal and external stakeholders, gathered independently 
through consultation with a strong emphasis on climate change 
and people engagement.
In 2022, the Group reorganized its material topics to be aligned with 
the upcoming Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD) 
requirements on double materiality, which has two dimensions: 
impact materiality and financial materiality. 
We analyzed how Capgemini is affected by its dependence on 
the availability of economic, environmental and social resources, 
independently of its potential impacts on those resources.For Capgemini,
 —  a sustainability matter is material from an impact perspective 
when it pertains to the material actual or potential, positive or 
negative impacts on people or the environment over short-, 
medium- and long -term time horizons. Impacts include those 
connected with Capgemini own operations and upstream 
and downstream value chain, including through its products 
and services, as well as through its business relationships; 
 —  a sustainability matter is material from a financial perspective 
if it triggers or could reasonably be expected to trigger 
material financial effects on Capgemini. This is the case when 
a sustainability matter generates risks or opportunities that 
have a material influence, or could reasonably be expected 
to have a material influence, on Capgemini development, 
financial position, financial performance, cash flows, access 
to finance or cost of capital over the short-, medium- or 
long -term; and
 —  a topic can be material from both perspectives.
Hence, we assessed each identified 2021 material topic using these 
definitions to structure the following double materiality matrix:
Environment       Social       Governance ESRS linked material topicsThe most
material
The less
material
Capgemini speciﬁc mat erial t opics Operations           Gro wthIDENTIFIED AS MATERIAL
FROM
BOTH PERSPECTIVESIDENTIFIED AS MATERIAL
FROM THE FINANCIAL
MATERIALITY PERSPECTIVEIDENTIFIED AS MATERIAL
FROM IMPACT MATERIALITY 
PERSPECTIVE
Client satisfaction
& collaboration
Industry and business 
expertise
Resilience & agility
Return to shareholders
Natural disasters
Political risksDiversity & inclusive 
environment
Health, safety & wellbeing
Responsible procurement
Contribution to local 
development
Digital inclusionEnvironmental managementClimate change
Helping clients achieve sustainable 
objectives
Human rightsTalent attraction, retention & development
Proﬁtable & sustainable growth
Compliance
Values & ethicsPeople engagement
Data privacy        Cybersecurity
Innovation
Of the 23 material topics, 17 are directly related to ESG.
The materiality assessment will be updated in 2024.

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
 environment: managing sustainability challenges
156
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT442  Environment: managing sustainability challenges
As a responsible business, we are determined to play a leadership 
role in ensuring technology creates a sustainable future. We drive 
internal change across every aspect of our operations, while helping 
our clients address their own environmental challenges. We also team up with our partners and suppliers, start -ups, policy -makers, 
governments and academics, to make sustainable progress together 
aligned to the goals of the Paris Agreement.
421  Climate change mitigation and adaptation
[GRI 201 -2]
[SASB TC-SI-130a.3]
The United Nation Environment Programme (UNEP) Emissions Gap 
Report 2023 shows that with the current policies in place, the world 
is headed for 2.9°C of global warming. Full implementation of the 
current unconditional pledges would reduce this to 2.5°C. This is by 
no means sufficient to meet the targets of the Paris Agreement and 
the window to take urgent climate action is rapidly closing. Only 
an urgent system -wide transformation can avoid climate disaster. 
According to UNEP, in order to limit global warming to below 
1.5°C, global greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions must be reduced by  
42% by 2030 (vs 2015).
Conscious that we have an important part to play, Capgemini has 
set targets to reach net zero by 2040, which have been validated 
by the Science Based Targets initiative as being aligned with the 
Corporate Net Zero Standard. We continue to make strong progress 
both in decarbonizing our business and collaborating across our 
supply chain to drive change and improvement. Our efforts in this 
area have been recognized once again by CDP (Carbone Disclosure 
Project) with a position on the CDP Climate Change A List.
TCFD reference
Thematic areas sections
Governance 4.2.1.1
Strategy 4.2.1.3
Risk Management 4.2.1.2
Metrics & targets 4.2.1.3
4211  A specific governance dedicated to climate 
change challenges
a)  net zero governance
With our net zero ambition, a reinforced governance structure has 
been implemented to support the development of our program.
The Net Zero Board provides executive level governance for our 
environmental sustainability program, with responsibility for 
monitoring climate risks and reviewing, debating, and approving 
climate and sustainability policies and practices for the Group. The 
Board comprises of our Group CEO together with other members 
of the Group’s Executive Committee and is chaired by our Head 
of Global Sustainability Services and Corporate Responsibility, a 
Group Executive Board member. Core membership includes the 
Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Corporate Responsibility Officer, 
the Group Head of Environmental Sustainability and the CEO of 
Capgemini India (which accounts for more than half of the Group’s 
headcount and is the largest contributor to our greenhouse gas 
emissions). The Net Zero Board meets on a quarterly basis.The Board is supported by a Cross-Function Sustainability 
Committee which brings together leaders from key functions such 
as Corporate Real Estate, Group IT and Group Procurement with 
key members of the Group Sustainability team to ensure delivery 
of the strategy. The Cross-Function Sustainability Committee 
meets on a quarterly basis.
A Net Zero Management Committee provides governance for 
the Environmental Management System (EMS), targets and data, 
and delivery of the net zero program. The Net Zero Management 
Committee meets on a monthly basis.
On a day -to-day basis, the Group’s long established Environmental 
Sustainability team is driving change across all levels of the business, 
working in partnership with key organizational functions such as 
Corporate Real Estate, IT, and Procurement. In addition, there is a 
dedicated team of global and local experts looking after the EMS, 
making sure that the strategy is translated into action plans and 
closely monitored. Read more about our EMS in the following Section.
Capgemini commits that any advocacy activities we undertake 
directly or indirectly are consistent with the goals of the Paris 
Agreement.
Our Group CEO, the Group Executive Board, the Group Executive 
Committee and the Board of Directors are all consulted and 
involved in key decisions relating to our sustainability program. 
Ultimate executive responsibility for material decisions relating 
to the program sits with the CEO, Mr. Aiman Ezzat.
b)  Management systems
Our net zero program is underpinned by two key management 
systems that are essential for managing and monitoring our 
activities and for taking informed decisions:
 —  our global environmental Management system ( eMs) 
provides a framework for managing the environmental 
performance of our business, ensures we have the right 
measures and governance in place to manage our operations 
efficiently and monit ors our legal compliance. Capgemini 
has a global ISO  14001  certificate for its EMS, which has 
been built on over a decade of experience in environmental 
management. Our EMS is delivered by a Global Sustainability 
Center of Excellence, environmental experts who make 
sure that we manage all our environmental risks and 
impacts effectively and remain compliant with all legal 
and regulatory requirements. The Capgemini global 
ISO 14001 EMS supports operations in 34 countries, covering 
over 340,000 employees. In 2023, we extended the scope of 
already certified countries to cover nine new sites, meaning 
a new total of 292  sites. This means that overall, based on 
headcount, 98% of the Capgemini group is certified under 
ISO 14001.

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
 environment: managing sustainability challenges
157
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI4Metrics unit 2019 2022 2023 
operations covered by 
Iso14001 – % of headcount 
covered (headcount at the 
end of the year)% 80% 94% 98% √ 
operations covered by 
Iso14001 – % of sites 
covered (number of sites 
at the end of the year%  68% 73% √ 
√ Data identified in these tables by a √ has been reviewed by Mazars with a 
reasonable level of assurance.
The Group operates a certified ISO 50001 Energy Management 
System covering France, Germany, Netherlands and the UK, with 
India holding a local certificate. In 2023, we extended the scope 
of ISO 50001 certification to cover Germany and Italy, adding 
52 more sites this year, and resulting in ISO 50001 being in place 
across 119 sites. Also, the Group holds a global ISO 45001 Health 
and Safety management system certificate covering Germany 
and the Netherlands, with local ISO 45001 certificates in Italy 
and India. Work continues to transition local certifications 
into the Group Management System and certificate. Further 
expansion of ISO 14001, ISO 50001 and ISO 45001 is being 
planned for 2024.
 —  our Carbon Accounting s ystem  provides a comprehensive 
data set concerning our carbon impacts, with millions of data 
points collected and analyzed on an ongoing basis. Having 
one centralized team and system responsible for gathering, 
processing, and reporting data helps us maintain a high level 
of consistency an d data quality. We use this extensive data set 
to enable a very granular view of greenhouse gas emissions, 
and to help us pinpoint opportunities to reduce emissions. 
In 2023, we have been further expanding the coverage of 
our carbon accounting by adding operations in Columbia 
and United Arab Emirates to our reporting. We now collect 
information from Capgemini entities across 40  countries, 
covering more than 99.8% of our global operations, and 
the data for the remainder < 0.2% being estimated. We 
continue to capture and report data monthly for our biggest 
countries (representing over 75% of the Group’s office and 
travel emissions), and for the largest sources of emission 
enabling faster engagement with the data and results. We 
also maintain a series of interactive dashboards for our 
sustainability and corporate real estate communities to 
engage with the data. Data from our carbon accounting 
system also feeds into other systems and processes.
4212  Impacts of climate -related risks and 
opportunities for our business
In line with the recommendations of the Taskforce on Climate 
Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), we consider the potential 
impacts of climate change on our business and ensure we have a 
strong and resilient strategy to respond to these. Although the 
diverse and agile nature of our business, serving a wide range of 
sectors with a varied portfolio of services, gives us some protection 
from the most disruptive transitional impacts of climate change, 
it is nonetheless essential that we understand and are ready to 
respond to potential climate risks and opportunities across our 
whole value chain. We have been assessing our climate risks for 
over a decade, but have significantly evolved this process in the last three years, increasing our focus on transition risks and launching 
a TCFD-aligned risk identification process at both a country and 
global level. In 2024, we will launch a refreshed series of climate 
risk workshops with key stakeholders across the Group, making 
more extensive use of climate scenario analysis and improving 
our quantification of the financial impacts of climate risks specific 
to Capgemini.
a)  Risk Identification & Assessment Process
The risk identification and assessment process is led by the global 
sustainability team in collaboration with the Group Risk function 
and draws on the expertise of key function areas ( Corporate Real 
Estate Services  (CRES), legal, HR, compliance, procurement, business 
continuity), as well as key market units and business areas. The process 
to date starts with preliminary analysis, focusing on insights from 
leading sustainability organized, including the Intergovernmental 
Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), International Energy Agency (IEA) 
and country -level Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs) to 
understand physical climate hazards, national and regional policies, 
targets and commitments and public sentiment towards climate 
change. In parallel, we analyze the climate risks and opportunities 
facing key sectors and key clients that we serve (downstream), 
as well as suppliers and partners who are crucial to our delivery 
(upstream), in order to understand potential knock -on impacts for 
Capgemini. Through this process, we also seek to improve market 
intelligence and identify potential opportunities.
Once the preliminary analysis is completed, we invite a selection 
of key stakeholders from the leadership teams to take part in 
workshops. These are run for key countries and regions, and at 
a global level, in collaboration with our Group Risk & Insurance 
department. Participants invited cover different parts of the value 
chain and usually include operational leads including the Chief of 
Operations, the Legal and Financial Directors, the Heads of Risk, 
Procurement, HR, Corporate Real Estate Services  and Sustainability, 
as well as representation from key market units and business areas. 
We share the findings from the background research, introduce 
two climate scenarios (in most cases we present a 1.5°C aligned 
scenario and a 4°C scenario, detailed below) and complete a 
facilitated brainstorming exercise to explore a wide range of 
potential risk scenarios and key opportunities with respect to our 
own operations and our value chain. A long list of potential risks 
is drawn up out of this exercise.
The participants of the risk identification workshops then review 
the identified risk scenarios individually (drawing on their own 
experience and knowledge, and to ensure diverse perspectives) 
and assess the impact and likelihood of each risk scenario according 
to the Group Risk criteria. The impact assessment focuses on 
assessing the maximum potential impacts on business strategy 
& objectives, the Group’s finances (revenue, cash flow, operating 
margin), reputation, compliance, as well as the security & safety 
of its people. The participants then assess the likelihood of these 
impacts being experienced firstly over a short- to medium -term 
time horizon (up to 5 years), and then separately over a long -term 
time horizon (6 -15 years). The same set of criteria are used to assess 
climate risk as are used with all types of risk, to ensure the results 
can be integrated into the Group Risk management system. Based 
on the assessment results, risks are grouped and prioritized and 
the participants brought together to review and challenge the 
results, discuss any anomalies and to agree on the final assessment 
and prioritization of risks, as well as identify risk owners who can 
take responsibility for the risks going forward.

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
 environment: managing sustainability challenges
158
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT4b)  Identified climate risks and opportunities
risk area Key climate risksdescription of Impacts (and any 
variance under climate scenarios) Control measures
Increased extreme 
weather and natural 
disasters due to 
climate change1. The increase in extreme 
weather events (heat waves, 
storms, flooding) and chronic 
climatic changes (droughts, 
rising temperatures, increased 
rainfall) could result in ill health, 
reduced productivity and (over 
the longer term) migration of 
employees.
2. The increase in extreme 
weather events (heat waves, 
storms, flooding) could result in 
damage to offices and increased 
insurance premiums.
3. If our delivery is too 
concentrated in areas exposed 
to extreme weather (or 
perceived to be), this could 
result in delivery disruption 
& loss of revenue or missed 
opportunities.
4. If our suppliers are disrupted 
by extreme weather or chronic 
climatic changes, this could 
result in delivery disruption 
(particularly in terms of data 
centers and telecommunications 
networks).Natural disasters in India are 
considered amongst Capgemini’s 
critical risks (see Section 3.2.1).
The high proportion of the 
workforce based in India (over 
50%) combined with the country’s 
vulnerability to climate change 
means the risk exposure is higher in 
India than elsewhere. Disruption to 
telecommunications or data center 
infrastructure through extreme 
weather events, reduced employee 
productivity and ill health could all 
result in delivery disruption. The 
financial implications of this could 
include service level penalties and 
liquidated damages for the client 
as well as loss of revenue due to 
delivery failure. With strong control 
measures in place and careful 
forward -looking planning around 
delivery locations, the likelihood 
of this being experienced is 
significantly reduced.
Over the 15 -year time horizon 
we have looked at, there is no 
significant divergence in the risk 
impacts in 1.5°C scenario vs a 4°C 
scenario.Control measures are described in 
more detail in Section 3.2.1 (under 
Section Country risks, political 
violence & natural disasters), 
including:
 —  a rigorous monitoring system 
is deployed to detect events as 
early as possible; 
 —  employees are equipped with 
the technology and virtual 
collaboration skills to connect 
from any location; 
 —  delivery is distributed across 
a large number of production 
sites and duplication of 
telecommunication networks 
helps ensure service 
continuity; 
 —  strong business continuity 
planning is in place across the 
Group (in India where this risk 
is most significant we have an 
ISO 22301 certified system); 
 —  a strong focus is placed on 
supporting employee health 
and well -being (refer to 
Section 4.3.1.7);
 —  an ISO 14001 certified 
management system is 
covering 98% of Group 
headcount with strong 
monitoring of environmental 
risks at site level.

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
 environment: managing sustainability challenges
159
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI4risk area Key climate risksdescription of Impacts (and any 
variance under climate scenarios) Control measures
Increased 
climate -related 
regulation1. Failure to comply with rapidly 
increasing legislation and 
disclosure requirements, could 
result in reduced access to 
investment or litigation.
2. Carbon pricing could result in 
higher operating costs.The diversity of local laws and 
regulations affecting Capgemini 
globally makes it a complex task 
to manage rapid regulatory 
changes, which are more likely in 
a 1.5°C aligned scenario given the 
scale and pace of change needed. 
Non -compliance with legal or 
regulatory provisions could lead to 
criminal sanctions, reduced access 
to investment or reputational 
damage. The likelihood of a major 
non -compliance is relatively 
low, given the stringent control 
measures in place. 
The application of an external 
price on carbon is virtually certain, 
though the impact on our business 
is considered to be low, particularly 
when mitigation actions to reduce 
carbon emissions are considered. 
To be more precise, if applied to 
all our energy -related emissions, 
a carbon price aligned to 1.5°C 
scenario (200 USD/tonne) could add 
up to 37 M€ to our operating costs. 
If applied to our travel costs too, the 
additional cost could be up to 99 M€ 
in total (these figures are based on 
2019 baseline emissions to give a 
view of the unadjusted risk before 
the impact of pandemic and before 
mitigating actions have been taken).Our general approach to managing 
the risks associated with evolving 
regulations is described in 
Section 3.2.1 Non-compliance with 
laws and/or adverse changes to 
regulations.
In addition through our 
ISO 14001 certified Environmental 
Management System we keep 
track of all legal requirements 
at a country or site level and 
define appropriate action plans to 
respond.
Controlling the Group’s carbon 
emissions is the key priority in 
terms of carbon pricing, with a 
strategy to reach net zero by 2040. 
Specific measures to reduce the 
emissions associated with energy 
and travel are described in more 
detail below in Section 4.2.1.3 but 
include increasing the proportion 
of renewable energy, reducing 
energy consumption through a 
global energy command center 
and reducing business travel 
emissions.

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
 environment: managing sustainability challenges
160
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT4risk area Key climate risksdescription of Impacts (and any 
variance under climate scenarios) Control measures
shifting markets in 
a rapidly changing 
world1. Failure to align our 
sustainability program with 
external expectations (in terms 
of guidelines & standards, 
performance on ratings and 
strength of reputation) could 
result in failure to win contracts 
or reduced access to finance.
2. If Capgemini is too slow 
to develop new offerings in 
response to climate change, this 
could result in loss of potential 
opportunities and market share.
3. Failure to understand and 
respond to our clients’ exposure 
to climate risks could result 
in loss of revenue, damage 
to our reputation or missed 
opportunities.
4. Failure of key suppliers to 
reduce emissions or support 
Capgemini’s emission reduction 
efforts, could undermine 
Capgemini’s net zero program, 
resulting in reputational damage 
and/or missed opportunities.Capgemini aims to take a leading 
position in acting on climate change, 
both in terms of transitioning our 
business to net zero and in helping 
our clients to do the same.
In our 1.5°C aligned climate scenario, 
the pressures and expectations 
on us are likely to be significant, 
with investors expecting that we 
will meet stringent standards and 
clients demanding that the services 
we provide to them will support 
their own transitions to net zero. 
In a rapidly transitioning 1.5°C 
scenario, if we do not help clients 
adapt quickly enough, we may miss 
out on opportunities or market 
share. Ultimately a poorly adapted 
service portfolio could lead to a fall 
in sales and a downturn in margin.
In a 4°C aligned scenario, the 
expectations on us will likely be 
lower and the pace of transition 
slower. Therefore the impact of 
this risk is lower in this scenario, 
though we will continue to have key 
clients committed to and looking 
for support with their net zero 
transition.General control measures related 
to adapting our portfolio to 
technological changes and new 
client expectations are described 
in Section 3.2.1 Difficulty/failure 
to adapt services portfolio with 
sufficient speed to address market 
changes/disruptions.
Specific measures related to these 
climate risks are described in 
Sections 4.2.1.3, and 4.2.1.4.
opportunity area Key o pportunity description of Potential Impacts Measures to s eize o pportunity
operational 
efficiency1. Reduction in energy costs.
2. Reduction in travel costs.By improving the efficiency of 
our offices and increasing the 
proportion of electricity coming 
from on -site renewables, we have 
the potential to reduce our energy 
costs and mitigate against some 
of the impacts of energy price 
increases.
Likewise, by transitioning to a low 
carbon delivery model, we have the 
potential to increase productivity 
and reduce travel costs, leading to 
cost savings both for our business 
and for clients.Described in Section 4.2.1.3

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
 environment: managing sustainability challenges
161
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI4Products  
& servicesIncreased demand for 
sustainable products and 
services, leading to increased 
revenues.We are seeing rising demand 
from clients with different 
aspects of their own sustainability 
transformation journeys; from 
more sustainable business solutions 
to data platforms for monitoring, 
value chain engagement and 
upskilling their employees. 
Capgemini supports over 70% of the 
200 largest companies on Forbes 
Global list, most of whom have 
their own sustainability targets. 
The most significant opportunity 
is around helping clients to reduce 
carbon emissions, which for 
Capgemini could lead to enhanced 
client relationships and increased 
revenues.Described in Section 4.2.3
c)  risk management and monitoring
Risks are managed at three main levels:
 —  risks identified with a substantive financial or strategic 
impact on our business (in line with the Group Risk criteria) 
are included in the Group Risk register and monitored and 
reviewed at least every six months, including an assessment 
of the action plan. An up -to-date overview of key risk 
exposures and a specific risk strategy for each risk considered 
critical is published annually in the Group Financial Report; 
 —  if a climate -related risk is not deemed to be “critical” at Group 
level, but falls above the assessment threshold at a country 
level, then action plans are drawn up at a country level and 
integrated into the Environmental Management System and 
local risk registers (where applicable) to be reviewed at least 
annually; 
 —  if a risk identified is below the threshold at both country 
and Group level, then it is documented in the Environmental 
Management System for continued monitoring. In addition, 
participants of the annual Group Risk Review evaluate the 
interaction between climate risks and other types of risks on 
the risk register.
In 2024, we will be deploying an enhanced management system 
to manage these risks, quantify their financial impacts more 
accurately and ensure control actions are robust in a range of 
different scenarios.4213  Our net zero strategy and program (climate 
change mitigation and adaptation policy)
[GRI 302 -1]; [GRI 302 -2]; [GRI 302 -3]; [GRI 302 -4]; [GRI 305 -1];  
[GRI 305 -2]; [GRI 305 -3]; [GRI 305 -4]; [GRI 305 -5]
[SASB TC-SI-130a.1]
a)  our net zero ambition
To reach its net zero ambition, Capgemini will continue to accelerate 
its carbon reduction program across our largest impact areas. 
We will focus first on reducing our absolute carbon impacts, with 
near- and long -term science -based targets that are aligned to 
the Science Based Targets Initiative’s (SBTi’s) Corporate Net-Zero 
Standard with the ultimate aim to reduce our emissions by 90% by 
2040. Given the urgent need to decarbonize, we are also scaling 
up our investment in projects that generate high -quality carbon 
credits (as defined by independent standards), have a positive 
impact for the planet and deliver wider co -benefits.
Analyzing our footprint, we know our biggest carbon impacts result 
from our business -related travel, the energy use in our facilities, 
the commuting of employees to the office, and from the goods 
and services we buy; we are committed to driving efficiency and 
innovation across these impact areas.
Our net zero headline target is to achieve a 90% reduction in 
greenhouse gas emissions across scopes 1, 2 and 3 by 2040 compared 
to a baseline of 2019. To ensure we make rapid progress, we also 
have near -term targets focused on driving a reduction in Scope 1 
& 2, business travel, commuting and purchased goods and services 
emissions, alongside supporting targets.opportunity area Key o pportunity description of Potential Impacts Measures to s eize o pportunity

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
 environment: managing sustainability challenges
162
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT41.  sBTi validated net zero targets
Categoriesnear term target (2030)  
versus  2019 baselineLong term target (2040)  
versus  2019 baseline
Headline (SBTi) targets (tCO2e)   
Absolute Scope 1 and 2 emissions -80% absolute -90% absolute
Business travel emissions per headcount (average total headcount) -55% per employee -90% absolute
employee commuting emissions per headcount (average total 
headcount) -55% per employee -90% absolute
Purchased goods and services – Scope 3 -50% absolute -90% absolute
2.  supporting targets
Metrics Target
Total energy use – % of electricity from renewables 100% in 2025
% of electric vehicles in Company car fleet 100% in 2030
b)  our transition roadmap
Our 10 -point transition roadmap defines all the areas we are tackling across our sustainability program, with our main focus on reaching 
net zero.CLIMATESOLUTIONS
ECONOMYIT
SUSTAINABLE
CIRCULAR WASTE &
WATERBIODIVERSITYACTIONNATURE &SMARTCOLLECTIVE
DELIVERY
SUPPLYLEADERSHIPENERGY
TRAVEL &GLOBAL
CHAINCARBON IM
PACTSCOLLABORATIVE GLOBAL FRAMEWORKNATURE &CLIM
ATE SOLUTIONS
BEYOND CARBON   OUR 10-POINT PLAN   

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
 environment: managing sustainability challenges
163
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI4Our net zero transition roadmap has been translated into action 
plans and the following actions have been taken in 2023:
1.  energy
Our focus is on ensuring we have the most sustainable buildings, 
that we operate them with optimum energy efficiency, and that 
we transition rapidly to renewable electricity.
Transition to 100% Renewable Energy
We are committed to transitioning to 100% renewable electricity 
by 2025, and this transition is on course. We made strong advances 
in our transition to renewable electricity, increasing our share of 
renewable electricity from 28% in 2019 to 96% in 2023. Our offices 
across Belgium, China, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, India, 
Ireland, Japan, Luxembourg, Morocco, Netherlands, New Zealand, 
Spain, the United Kingdom and the United States are all now on 
100% renewable electricity.
The transition is being made through onsite solar and power purchase 
agreements where feasible. Energy attribute certificates are also 
part of our strategy for sites where energy supplies are controlled 
by the landlord, or in countries where our consumption is too low 
for a PPA to be a viable option. Our focus here is on ensuring the 
best quality renewable electricity, as well as working to identify 
better solutions for the long term.
Capgemini India, which accounts for more than half of our 
electricity consumption, continues to be on 100% renewable 
electricity. Campuses in Bangalore, Hyderabad, and both Chennai 
offices (MIPL and SIPCOT) are generating an energy surplus, which 
they are exporting to their respective state electricity boards. In 
2023, 679 MWh of renewable electricity has been exported to the 
electricity grid from the four offices, powering the equivalent of 
over 500 households. It means that over 14,500 MWh was generated 
by on -site solar in 2023, accounting for 15% of Capgemini India’s 
total electricity consumption.
We continue to focus on ensuring the data centers we use are 
powered by renewable electricity (including both data centers leased 
directly by Capgemini and those under third party control). In 2023, 
our leased data centers were on 100% renewable electricity and 
third party managed data centers on 87% renewable electricity.
Increase	the	sustainability	performance	of	our	offices	and	
data centers
Creating sustainable and energy -efficient workplaces starts with 
strong environmental design.
Many of our flagship buildings across India, France, Germany, Poland, 
Spain, and Sweden are certified under Leadership in Energy and 
Environmental Design  (LEED), Indian Green Building Council  (IGBC), 
Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment 
Method (BREEAM) or equivalent green building accreditations. In 
addition, we signed a further nine Green Leases during 2023 across 
Europe, the USA and India, bringing the total to 26.
Capgemini’s Hinjawadi, Talwade and Mumbai Airoli campuses in 
India have been awarded the Net Zero-Energy Platinum  Certification 
by the Indian Green Building Council  (IGBC). This certification, 
recognizing the use of 100% renewable energy for operations, 
marks a significant stride toward sustainability for the campuses. 
The CRES Engineering team played a pivotal role, achieving an 
impressive Energy Performance score of 75 out of 75 points. The 
campuses showcase innovative sustainability features, including 
energy -efficient HVAC system with district cooling, efficient Data 
Center PUE (Power Usage Effectiveness) management, rainwater 
harvesting, and solar -powered streetlights. Additionally, the 
implementation of electric vehicle charging points, coupled with a dual feeder electricity supply to reduce diesel generator 
operations and GHG emissions, highlights Capgemini’s commitment 
to comprehensive sustainability practices. The “Performance 
challenge award” for continuous improvement was also given 
to Hyderabad, Bangalore and Noida campuses by the IGBC. In 
addition, Capgemini Bangalore campus is recognized as one of 
the 100 Iconic Sustainable Buildings by the G20 India Presidency.
Besides the focus on selecting and creating sustainable buildings, 
we are putting a lot of effort into improving the energy efficiency 
of our operations.
We launched our unique Energy Command Center (ECC) in Bangalore, 
India in 2022. The ECC helped drive a rapid 29% reduction in energy 
consumption across our eight main campuses in India in its first 
10 months of operation, the equivalent of a 21 GWh of electricity 
savings. It has continued to maintain a saving of 25 GWh of electricity 
in 2023 vs 2019, despite increased office occupancy. This unique 
initiative to reduce our own emissions uses smart technology 
to optimize the use of resources and to monitor asset health. 
The ECC harnesses a data -driven approach and digitalization to 
monitor and optimize the performance of energy assets across 
our sites. It measures and predicts various metrics like indoor air 
quality, energy intensity, water intensity, health of critical assets, 
renewable energy generation, and overall performance across all 
energy assets. The ECC demonstrates the power of technology 
and sustainability combined. Scalable both geographically and 
operationally, it will enable us to manage and reduce our energy 
use across our offices in India and beyond.
Several initiatives implemented across our campuses in India have 
led to improvements in energy efficiency:
 —  energy efficient dual fluid air handlers installed in Noida 
and h yderabad campuses  with optimized daytime and 
night -time programming to increase energy efficiency; 
 —  new e lectronically Commutated ( eC) fans have been 
installed at our Bangalore campus  replacing conventional 
fans in the cooling towers, which is expected to reduce 30% 
of the cooling tower energy consumption per annum ; 
 —  energy efficient chillers with closed loop cooling towers 
installed in n oida campus , which are expected to reduce 
energy consumption associated with chillers by 30% per 
annum  and reduce water consumption too; 
 —  new en ergy efficient air conditioning equipment has 
been installed in the engineering labs of our Gurugram 
and Bangalore campuses , which is expected to reduce 30% 
energy consumption per annum .
In total, with various energy efficiency measures and some impact 
from reduced office occupancy, energy consumption has been 
reduced by 43% in India since 2019.
In addition, in 2023 we have worked to deploy on -site battery 
storage at key campuses. Using technology to transform the energy 
industry, Capgemini recently installed a state -of-the-art ‘Battery 
Energy Storage Solution’ (BESS) with a capacity of 2.5 MWh in the 
Noida campus and 3.5 MWh in the Mumbai campus. The solution 
allows Capgemini to store excess renewable energy generated 
from solar plants during the day and use it during the evening peak 
hours. This, in turn, significantly reduces pressure on electricity 
grid during peak hours, as well as reducing GHG emissions and 
energy costs. BESS can also facilitate peak shaving during the 
day, using a Time of the day Tariff (TOD) to store energy from the 
grid during off -peak hours and then discharge it during on -peak 
hours. These operations are scheduled and monitored digitally 
from Energy command center.

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
 environment: managing sustainability challenges
164
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT42.  sustainable IT
The technology powering business today has a significant and 
growing impact on energy use and global carbon emissions. As a 
leader in the technology sector, we are very aware of IT related 
emissions, with a steering group tasked with strengthening our 
commitment to sustainable IT across our organization. 2023 has been 
a year of implementing Capgemini’s sustainable IT transformation 
roadmap launched in 2022. Our sustainable IT transformation 
roadmap focuses on four key areas:
 —  reducing IT energy consumption:  Reducing IT energy 
consumption and thereby lowering the use -phase emissions 
from IT equipment energy usage; 
 —  reducing IT embedded carbon footprint:  Reducing the 
embedded carbon footprint of purchased IT equipment and 
services and progressively adopting circularity practices 
(including extending usable life of IT equipment and 
minimizing e -waste);
 —  investing into sustainable IT tools and talent:  Investing in 
sustainable IT tools and talent for monitoring, governance, 
and reduction of our footprint; 
 —  enabling sustainable digital collaboration:  Enabling 
enterprise -wide sustainable digital collaboration tools usage 
to support lower carbon delivery (hybrid working) models.
During 2023, several initiatives executed across these key focus 
areas have laid a strong foundation to progress with our sustainable 
IT transformation journey and operate IT more sustainably:
 —  sustainable PCs and circularity:  To r e d u c e e m b e d d e d c a r b o n 
of our devices, we continue to build global partnerships with 
leading Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs). Through 
our laptop refurbishment program and PC Lifespan policy, 
we aim for the usable life of laptops to be a minimum of four 
years. By integrating sustainability criteria into procurement 
of IT equipment, we have judiciously selected laptops that 
are more energy efficient. We have also replaced significant 
quantity of end -of-usable -life desktops and monitors with 
laptops, resulting in both energy and carbon savings.
 —  sustainable digital experience management:  We have 
implemented a sustainable digital experience management 
solution across most of the Capgemini group, with coverage 
of more than 300,000  laptops. This solution helps in 
periodic monitoring and reporting of energy footprint using 
laptop -agent based deployment. During 2023, a power- saver 
policy has been rolled out to a significant proportion of these 
laptops, which has enabled us to manage endpoint energy 
consumption effectively. The transformation of Group wide 
communication and collaboration services that is built on 
sustainability -focused solution architecture has helped in 
decommissioning legacy hardware -based solution for more 
than 50,000  IP phones, and thereby reducing our carbon 
footprint.
 —  sustainable data centers:  We continue to work with our 
data center providers to consolidate and modernize our data 
center environments, driving a transformation to private 
cloud, which helps us reduce energy consumption and carbon 
emissions. Over the last two years, the amount of operational 
equipment (i.e. servers, storage and backup infrastructure) 
used within our Group IT data centers has reduced by 15%. During this period, the proportion of renewable electricity 
used across four countries that host the highest number of 
data center equipment has increased by 25% on average. We 
have more than doubled our usage of greener public Cloud 
Infrastructure Services over the last two years due to our 
move -2-cloud initiatives. We have also evaluated circularity 
options to return end -of-use equipment back to OEMs for 
reuse or recycling by engaging leading OEMs of network 
infrastructure equipment.
 —  sustainable application portfolio:  As part of our application 
portfolio transformation roadmap, we have continued 
to rationalize and transform the enterprise application 
landscape into a sustainable application portfolio, including 
cloud/eco/SaaS-based modernization. This transformation 
enables standardization, consolidation and thereby retiring 
several legacy apps from the portfolio to make it more 
maintainable and sustainable.
 —  sustainable-IT talent engagement:  We have launched 
several talent engagement initiatives during 2023. We 
engaged Group IT employees through a series of on -site 
gamified interaction events on sustainable-IT topics. 
On Earth Day, we launched a data clean -up campaign to 
promote sustainable digital usage behavior among Group IT 
employees. We have also progressed on periodic posting of 
knowledge bytes on our Sustainable-IT intranet community 
portal to  spread awareness on sustainable-IT topics as we 
all as organized a Green Book (sustainable-IT-by -design 
principles) masterclass for Group IT employees, to promote 
adoption of eco -design best practices into projects and 
initiatives that would help transform IT services into more 
sustainable IT services.
Our Group IT team has continually demonstrated a commitment 
to sustainability in our quest for operational excellence and 
environmental responsibility. We have started working on data driven 
analytics to help reduce our energy usage and carbon footprint, 
by attempting to build data models using machine learning for 
sustainable-IT use cases. We continue to invest in technologies, 
eco-design, modernize services and solutions through market and 
vendor studies. Our IT strategy attempts to stay at the forefront 
of sustainability, contributing to Capgemini’s environmental goals 
and net zero target.
3.  Travel & s mart d elivery
Reducing business travel emissions through our low 
carbon digital delivery model
Hybrid working and virtual collaboration continues to be our “new 
normal”. We have invested in IT solutions and equipment that allow 
people to work from anywhere at any time, connecting in the most 
effective and sustainable way. Our Group Travel Policy continues to 
have a strong focus on sustainability, encouraging people to first 
ask if they really need to travel, then providing clear guidelines to 
ensure sustainable choices are prioritized.
In 2023, we strengthened the policy to mandate the use of rail 
instead of air on journeys that can be reached by train in less than 
three hours. With 2023 marking our first full year without significant 
travel restrictions due to Covid, as expected we have seen some 
rebound in business travel emissions (up 26% per employee vs 
2022), though business travel emissions per employee are 60% 
lower than they were in 2019.

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
 environment: managing sustainability challenges
165
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI4Annual targets are cascaded to each country by the Net Zero 
Board, and we monitor the data each month through our carbon 
dashboards, enabling us to take action more quickly. In 2023, 
we launched a new set of travel dashboards across our global 
sustainability network, enabling better tracking of travel emissions 
with each business area, as well as more granular analysis of air 
travel in particular.
Transitioning	to	an	electric	vehicle	fleet
Our membership of the EV100 commits us to transitioning our 
car fleet to 100% electric vehicles by 2030. We no longer allow 
the ordering of pure petrol and diesel cars, and at the beginning 
of 2023, we introduced a cap of 50 gCO2/km for new car orders, 
which prevents the ordering of mild hybrids. At the end of 2023, 
the share of electric vehicles was 34% (including both pure electric 
and plug -in hybrids), up from 24% in 2022. The next step, from 2025, 
will phase out plug -in hybrid vehicles. To facilitate the transition, we 
continue to invest in the expansion of our charging facilities. Over 
the last couple of years, we have installed more than 1,300 charging 
points and continue to add more. This will facilitate the transition 
both for company cars and private cars.
Reduce the impacts of employee commuting
In 2020, we introduced new targets to reduce the carbon impacts of 
commuting. Working from home, post -pandemic, is now a significant 
contributor to our overall emissions. Our fifth global commuting 
survey has continued to understand our people’s commuting habits as 
well as the impacts of home working, including emissions associated 
with heating, cooling, and powering IT equipment. In total, we had 
61,000 responses to our employee commuting survey in 2023, with 
nearly one in five employees voluntarily sharing information on 
their commutes. The results have shown a significant increase in 
commuting emissions due to people returning to the office, with 
total commuting emissions per employee (including the impact 
of working from home) up 19% in 2023.
Overall, though, the shift to hybrid working continues to hold 
emissions at below pre -pandemic levels, with commuting emissions 
per employee down by 54% versus  2019 (or by 41% versus  2019 
when you include the impact of working from home).
To support our employees’ return to the office, we promote a range 
of sustainable commuting initiatives. Cycling and supporting the use 
of bikes has been one focus area. In 2023, a long -term electric bike 
rental partnership was agreed in France across 13 of their larger sites 
as well as partnerships with local e -bike suppliers with discounts 
for employees implemented in Portugal. Our Munich, Ratingen, 
and Berlin offices received Cycle-Friendly Employer certificates, as 
part of an EU-wide scheme developed by Bike2Work and co -funded 
by the EU Intelligent Energy Europe Program. Promoting the use 
of public transport has been another key area, with Capgemini 
Germany providing a monthly mobility budget to employees to 
support the use of more sustainable commuting options. We also 
have company shuttle buses in place in Rome (Italy), Madrid (Spain) 
and all our larger campuses across India. New charging points for 
EVs have been installed across our offices with many locations 
providing free charging for personal vehicles during 2023.4.  supply Chain
Understanding the critical role of collective action in reducing 
Scope 3 emissions, in June 2021, our Group CEO and Chief Procurement 
Officer communicated our net zero ambitions to the majority of our 
suppliers, urging them to prioritize sustainability. To further this 
objective, we hosted several CPO roundtables and a Supplier Day 
in 2023, where our CEO shared our vision and expectations with 
key suppliers. The importance of supplier engagement was further 
emphasized in 2023 during our Supplier Day and CPO Roundtable 
events. These engagements provided platforms for discussing 
target setting, emissions data capture, and low -carbon pathways.
At Capgemini, we acknowledge that our supply chain significantly 
influences our overall environmental impact. In 2023, approximately 
half of our carbon emissions were attributed to purchased goods 
and services. Therefore, our procurement strategies and supplier 
collaborations are pivotal in advancing our sustainability objectives.
In our pursuit to achieve a 50% reduction in carbon emissions from 
procured goods and services, we have focused on enhancing our 
carbon accounting capabilities and fostering productive collaborations 
with our suppliers. This entails clearly defining our expectations, 
aiding suppliers to elevate their climate change response, and 
targeting improvements in high -impact supply categories.
In summer 2023, we initiated the Capgemini Supply Chain ESG 
pledge, replacing our previous Net Zero Contract. This pledge 
aims at creating strong supplier engagement towards supporting 
the achievement of Capgemini ESG targets. We ask suppliers to 
define their own targets to achieve and commit to monitoring 
progress against these. We also invited suppliers to go beyond 
assessment and reporting, demonstrating with concrete actions 
and explaining how they will conduct the necessary transformation 
to reach those targets.
The Capgemini Supply Chain ESG Pledge requires top emitters, 
including both high carbon emitters and top spend suppliers, to 
disclose their annual GHG emissions, set science -based targets 
validated by SBTi, and share their climate transition and low -carbon 
product strategies. It also encourages and provides examples of 
additional voluntary actions that yield measurable environmental 
benefits. Our approach emphasizes supporting suppliers to 
enhance their carbon emission reduction practices, and actively 
collaborates with those committed to environmental transition, 
as well as gradually phasing out suppliers with lesser net zero 
ambitions. This pledge starts with action on climate change but will 
ultimately address each ESG and human rights challenges where 
transformation of the supply chain is needed.
As a committed CDP supply chain member (CDP is formerly known 
as the Carbon Disclosure Project), we leverage this partnership to 
support our suppliers in calculating their emissions and advancing 
their climate change understanding. This collaboration has not only 
improved the accuracy of our Scope 3 data but also enhanced our 
insight into the challenges and progress of our suppliers towards 
net zero. In 2023, the 184 suppliers who responded to the CDP 
demonstrated significant progress in tackling climate change: over 
60% were setting or had set science -based targets, and more than 
85% had undertaken emission reduction actions.

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
 environment: managing sustainability challenges
166
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT4By the end of 2023, suppliers representing 26% of our carbon 
emissions and 22% of our total spend had accepted to commit 
to the Capgemini Supply Chain ESG Pledge or are aligned to its 
principles. In 2024 we continue our efforts to further expand 
coverage of our spend and emissions.
To ensure a cohesive approach to our net zero goal, we have trained 
all Category Managers in high emission purchasing categories, 
representing a substantial portion of our spend and Scope 3.1 related 
emissions. This training, where buyers are upskilled to work with 
other function on specification and volume levers, is part of our 
broader effort to align all company functions for maximum impact. 
We are also continuing to develop our communication packages 
to raise awareness among stakeholders about the environmental 
implications of their procurement decisions.
Capgemini is steadfast in its commitment to sustainable supply 
chain management. Through strategic collaborations, stakeholder 
engagement, and internal training, we are progressing the actions 
and mindset needed to move towards net zero.
5.  nature and Climate s olutions
Our actions to decarbonize our business to reach net zero by 2040 
are a clear imperative, but the reality is the current climate crisis is 
being driven by the level of carbon dioxide already in the atmosphere 
today. Consequently, alongside our carbon reduction focus, and as 
recommended in the SBTi’s Net-Zero Standard, we are investing at 
a fair scale, commensurate with our emissions, in projects to abate 
and remove carbon from beyond our own value chain.
Why we are acting beyond our value chain to address global 
net zero
Whilst our focus as a business is on decarbonization, with a target 
to reduce our carbon emissions by 90% across all scopes by 2040, 
we recognize that the voluntary carbon market offers a way to 
scale up the needed climate finance and reduce the concentration 
of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere today. Whilst we recognize 
the controversy that has developed recently with terms such as 
carbon neutrality, we remain committed to acting beyond our value 
chain and supporting the abatement of atmospheric greenhouse 
gas concentration.
We welcome the ongoing work of SBTi, Voluntary Carbon Markets 
Integrity Initiative (VCMI) and Integrity Council for the Voluntary 
Carbon Market (IC-VCM) to bring greater integrity to the supply 
and use of carbon credits and helping to close the loop on 
unsubstantiated carbon related claims. We will continue to review 
the developing guidelines and the claims we may make relating to 
beyond value chain mitigation.
our strategy for nature and climate solutions
In the three years since we made our commitment to become a 
net zero business, we have refined our overall approach to nature 
and climate solutions.
Our key principles are:
 —  Decarbonize first:  Rapid and ambitious decarbonization 
aligned to the SBTi’s Corporate Net-Zero Standard must be 
at the heart of our climate commitment.
 —  Contribute to ‘global net zero’ acting beyond our 
value chain:  We have a responsibility to act beyond the 
decarbonization of our own operations to address the 
impacts of the climate crisis today. —  Create a balanced carbon credit portfolio made up of 
both development and existing projects:  We will make 
investments in projects that will deliver our long -term 
(up to 30  years+) supply of carbon credits. We will support 
existing projects (through offtake or spot credits) to secure 
short -term needs.
 —  ensure we support projects across countries we operate in/
our countries of operation:  We will support projects where 
possible in countries where Capgemini operates, alongside 
larger project development opportunities internationally.
 —  support high -quality carbon credit projects:  We aim to 
secure carbon credits that are high -quality, as defined by 
independent standards such as Verified Carbon Standard or 
Gold Standard.
 —  Seek climate solutions with wider co‑benefits:  Nature 
and climate projects we invest in should also have wider 
environmental and social benefits beyond carbon abatement 
wherever possible. For example, in support of the United 
Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals particularly, 
creating biodiversity, social and economic benefits to local 
communities.
 —  Invest in carbon avoidance and removal projects:  Our 
program will support a mix of projects that both avoid new 
greenhouse gases entering the atmosphere (e.g. avoided 
deforestation and improved cookstoves) and projects that 
remove carbon dioxide (e.g. afforestation).
 —  Take action at a fair scale:  Our levels of investment will 
be relevant to our own carbon emissions. We will scale up 
investment each year to the point that retired credits are at 
the same level as our operational emissions by 2025 and from 
2030 include our supply chain related emissions, as set out in 
our ESG Policy 2021.
 —  Invest in both nature and climate tech solutions:  Our 
initial focus will be on nature -based solutions because 
of the availability and co -benefits, but we are aware of 
their limitations. We will also seek opportunities with new 
technologies, such as direct air capture and storage.
 —  ensure transparency:  Our strategy will be transparent and 
aligned to bes t practice, including SBTi and other emerging 
rigorous and globally recognized frameworks.
Mitigating emissions beyond our value chain  
(our actions in 2023)
Since 2019, we have reduced our operational emissions by 47%. 
Alongside this decarbonization, we continued to scale up our 
climate contribution by retiring 236,191 carbon credits in 2023, 
which equates to 53% of our remaining operational emissions. 
Over the next two years we are planning to close the gap so that 
we are making a contribution against all our residual operational 
emissions. Together with our partners we perform due diligence 
on each carbon credit project from which we have retired credits. 
Since the release of the IC-VCMs Core Carbon Principles, we have 
been aligning our evaluation framework to ensure overlap with 
all ten principles. This includes considering governance of the 
carbon credit standards to ensure it is effective, operates a registry 
where credits can be tracked and where information on projects 
is transparently and validation and verification is undertaken by 
independent third -parties.

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
 environment: managing sustainability challenges
167
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI4At a project level we evaluate additionally, permanence, quantification, 
ensure no double counting and look for projects that contribute to 
SDGs, have appropriate safeguarding mechanisms and contribute to 
the net zero transition. The voluntary carbon market has been and 
should continue to be in a state of renewal, learning and improving 
the robustness of processes, assessment and quantification. Our 
due diligence process does not imply credits retired will receive a 
CCP label from IC-VCM given how methodologies and the market 
have had to evolve but they represent credits from projects 
that passed our interpretation of these principles at the time of 
purchase. Going forward our due diligence process will continue to 
evolve for new investments and purchases to evaluate using best 
practice in line with our values and principles. As requirements and 
standards continue to evolve we will always endeavor to ensure 
we are following the latest guidelines. There will however always 
be a lag between commitments made to pre -existing projects new 
purchases and investments and credits we have available to retire.
All credits, if applicable, may be counted towards the host countries 
achievement of their Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs) 
under the Paris Agreement.
Credits retired this year related to the following carbon projects:
 —  KoKo e thanol Cookstoves, Kenya  – The project involves 
distribution of bio -ethanol cookstoves and promotes their 
use for cooking purposes in households. KOKO enables 
distribution of high efficiency ethanol cookstoves and 
last-mile delivery of bio -ethanol fuel to the target customers 
through a network of fuel-ATMs (KOKO points) installed in 
local shops. The project enables households to move away 
from unimproved cookstoves consuming non -renewable 
woody biomass (charcoal & fuelwood).
 —  Guoluo Grassland s ustainable Management Project, 
China  – The project removes carbon from the atmosphere by 
restoring the plateau’s degraded grasslands. Located in the 
central Chinese province of Qinghai, this project is restoring 
over 160,548.96  ha of degraded grasslands by seeding 
three species of native grass. The plateau region of the 
Yangtze, Yellow and Lancang Rivers, has suffered grassland 
degradation over the past few decades due to overgrazing 
and warming. This project has exceptional biodiversity 
benefits in a Key Biodiversity Area (KBA) with endangered 
species such as the steppe eagle, saker falcon, and alpine 
musk deer. Over half of the twelve thousand local herders 
who were employed as part of the project were women.
 —  Gyapa Cookstoves, Ghana  – This project supplies families in 
Ghana with fuel -efficient cookstoves requiring nearly 50% 
less wood, saving families as much as 100  dollars annually, 
while protecting Ghana’s tree cover. The stove not only cuts carbon emissions, but also reduces families’ exposure to 
toxic fumes. In addition, the project provides training and 
employment to 180  local metalworkers and ceramists with 
the stoves distributed through a network of over 600 local 
retailers.
 —  Miaoling and Qianbei Afforestation Projects, China  – 
Native tree species have been planted on 80,230 hectares of 
barren land, aiming to achieve ecological afforestation and 
reverse rocky desertification in close collaboration with local 
communities. In order to ensure permanence, commercial 
logging has been forbidden in the project areas.
 —  rimba r aya, Indonesia  – This project is working to protect 
around 160,000  hectares of tropical rainforest and peat 
swamp. The project area is home to over 350 species of bird, 
122  species of mammal, and 180  tree species. More than 
90  are endangered, including the Bornean orangutan. The 
project also generates a wide variety of social outcomes, 
including funding community enterprises such as boat 
building and generating local employment through field 
patrols, firefighters and forest guides. In addition, a floating 
health clinic provides medical care to remote villages, and 
safe water filters and solar lighting have been provided 
for schools and homes. The project was the first to have 
co benefits certified under the SD Vista standard and is 
contributing to all 17 SDGs.
 —  Tist Program, India  – The project encourages small groups 
of subsistence farmers to improve their local environment 
and farms by plan ting and maintaining trees on degraded 
and/or unused land. Carbon credit sales generate participant 
income and provide project funding to address agricultural, 
HIV/AIDS, nutritional, and fuel challenges.
Capgemini is part of the World Economic Forum (WEF) 1 trillion 
trees campaign to conserve, restore, and grow one trillion trees 
around the world. We have committed to planting 20 million 
trees by 2030 and as of the end of 2023 we had planted around 
14 million trees, with 67 million euros committed to nature and 
climate solutions by 2040 to remove and abate carbon beyond 
our own value chain. Most of the trees planted are through our 
long -term investments in early -stage carbon credits projects aiming 
to restore natural landscapes. Beyond our carbon credit program 
we have also established tree planting schemes, including the 
Capgemini Forest, through our partner Ecologi, a B-Corp climate 
action platform focused on tree planting around the world. Ecologi 
offered a robust framework, transparent approach and a simple 
purchasing mechanism to enable any stakeholder within the business 
to invest in high quality tree planting in forests to recognize the 
actions of our people. The “Capgemini Forest” has now reached 
over 1 million trees planted.

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
 environment: managing sustainability challenges
168
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT4Project n ame LocationProject 
Category Project Type standardCo‑benefit 
standards tCo2e
TIsT (The International Small Group & Tree 
Planting Program)India Removal Afforestation VCS CCB 2,627
Miaoling Afforestation China Removal Afforestation VCS CCB 23,471
Qianbei Afforestation China Removal Afforestation VCS CCB 1,255
Guoluo Grassland China Removal Afforestation VCS CCB 8,100
KoKo – ethanol Cookstoves Kenya Avoidance Improved 
CookstovesGS GS 11,000
rimba r aya Indonesia Avoidance Avoided 
DeforestationVCS CCB and  
SD Vista26,891
Gyapa Cook s toves Ghana Avoidance Improved 
CookstovesGS GS 162,847
TOTAL (tCO2e)      236,191 √
VCS = Verified Carbon Standard. CCB = Climate, Community and Biodiversity. SD Vista = Sustainable Development Verified Impact Standard. GS = Gold Standard.
√ Data identified in these tables by a √ has been reviewed by Mazars with a reasonable level of assurance.
6.  Collective Action
We are committed to working with our clients, partners, start -ups and 
NGOs to find solutions to major systemic challenges, participating 
in conversations to drive innovations and new ways of working. In 
2023 was the first time our climate strategy was presented at our 
annual shareholders meeting.
In 2023, Capgemini committed to 10 million young people being 
mobilized through Green Rising launched by UNICEF and Generation 
Unlimited in a three -year partnership.
Skill up for a sustainable future: The Sustainability Campus was 
launched in June 2022 and is accessible to all our people around 
the world. It was created to centralize all sustainability learning 
and facilitate upskilling on this strategic topic. Since its launch, 70% 
of our employees have completed the Globe Awareness Module. 
The Campus has evolved to include specialized trainings, focusing 
on specific roles as well as industry specific training modules and 
deep dives on key topics relevant to all. It offers the flexibility for 
everyone to customize their learning paths for maximum impact.
Beyond the Global Awareness Module: In addition to this foundation 
learning, all employees have the option to dive deeper into relevant 
sustainability topics and industry or role trainings. They can also 
learn more about our client offers. Capgemini employees in IT 
roles are also encouraged to complete the Green IT Essentials 
Module, which explores the impact of digital technology on 
the environment. Some internal certifications are awarded to 
people who master certain sustainability trainings. Employees 
can complete pathways that focus on sustainability topics related 
to their industry and portfolio, and other pathways or modules 
that upskill their sustainability knowledge for their role. There 
are beginner, practitioner, and master levels. For those needing 
more in -depth sustainability training, specific extended program 
have also been launched with external university program from 
the University of Exeter, UK, Stanford University, USA and ESSEC 
University, France. Certification is provided to participants upon 
successful completion.7.  Global leadership
Capgemini has a longstanding commitment to environmental 
sustainability, with a strategy that focuses on managing and reducing 
our own environmental impacts, whilst deploying our expertise 
in technology, engineering, and business transformation to help 
clients address their own sustainability challenges.
In 2023, we made two new public commitments to invest in nature 
and climate solutions beyond our value chain through membership 
of LEAF Coalition, First Movers Coalition. In addition, we became 
one of 280 leading companies to become a CDP supply chain 
member helping our suppliers to calculate their carbon emissions.
Since we announced our net zero ambition, we have joined many 
global campaigns and thinktanks from being a founder member of 
Race to Zero, RE100 and EV100 commitments, as well as the World 
Economic Forum’s (WEF) Alliance of CEO Climate Leaders. We are 
also part of the WEF 1trillion trees movement, committing to plant 
20 million trees by 2030 and the European Green Digital Coalition, 
a group of technology leaders aiming to ensure technology is a key 
driver in addressing sustainability issues.
We have net zero targets aligned with the Corporate Net-Zero 
Standard of the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) and are 
amongst the first companies to have our targets approved.
Our efforts and performance have been rewarded with a position 
on CDP’s A list of companies leading on climate action, and the 
award of Platinum  status from sustainability ratings provider 
EcoVadis. For the complete overview of awards and recognitions, 
please refer to Section 4.6.5.
The final 3 points of our 10 -point plan – Water, Biodiversity, Waste 
& Circular Economy – are detailed in Section 4.2.2.

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
 environment: managing sustainability challenges
169
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI44214  Climate change mitigation and adaptation performance in 2023 
[GRI 302 -1]; [GRI 302 -2]; [GRI 302 -3]; [GRI 302 -4]; [GRI 305 -1]; [GRI 305 -2]; [GRI 305 -3]; [GRI 305 -4]; [GRI 305 -5]
[SASB TC-SI-130a.1]
The data tables below show the environmental sustainability performance in 2023 of Capgemini group.
a)  Carbon emissions by scope
 Metrics unit 2019 2022 2023 % change 
vs 2019% change 
vs 2022
Scope 1 Data centers energy  
– Scope 1 (natural gas, diesel) tCO2e 19 19 19 1% - %
Office Energy  
– Scope 1 (natural gas, diesel) tCO2e 7,576 4,038 3,723 -51% -8%
F gas – Scope 1 tCO2e 5,485 4,402 5,121 -7% 16%
Total Scope 1 tCo2e 13,080 8,459 8,863 √ ‑32% 5%
Scope 2
Market basedData centers energy – Scope 2 
(electricity, heating, cooling) tCO2e 889 0 0 -100% - %
Office Energy – Scope 2  
(electricity, heating, cooling) tCO2e 139,908 10,457 4,466 -97% -57%
Total Scope 2 tCo2e 140,797 10,457 4,466 √ -97% -57%
Scope 2
Location basedData centers energy – Scope 2 
(electricity, heating, cooling)  
– location based tCO2e 856 144 143 -83% - %
Office Energy – Scope 2 (electricity, 
heating, cooling) – location based tCO2e 168,584 77,161 78,801 -53% 2%
Total Scope 2 tCO2e  169,440  77,305  78,944  ‑53%  2% 
Scope 3 Purchased goods and services  
– Scope 3 tCO2e 299,887 365,650 349,522 √ 17% -4%
Data centers (Third party managed)  
– Scope 3 tCO2e 3,862 2,850 2,274 -41% -20%
Office Energy – Scope 3  
(Transport & Distribution losses) tCO2e 23,311 10,798 12,498 -46% 16%
Data centers energy – Scope 3 
(Transport & Distribution losses) tCO2e 62 5 5 -92% -1%
Waste – Scope 3 tCO2e 496 263 221 √ -55% -16%
Business travel emissions – Scope 3 
(including Company car travel) tCO2e 337,180 139,090 174,706 √ -48% 26%
Employee commuting (including 
working from home) – Scope 3 tCO2e 310,722 201,849 239,630 √ -23% 19%
Water emissions – Scope 3 tCO2e 1,963 326 396 -80% 22%
Total Scope 3 tCo2e 977,481 720,832 779,251 √ ‑20% 8%
TOTAL EMISSIONS tCo2e 1,131,357 739,748 792,580 √ ‑30% 7%
Total operational emissions tCo2e 831,471 374,098 443,058 ‑47% 18%
Carbon credits retired tCO2e  20,883 236,191 √  1031%
Scope: Capgemini group.
√ Data identified in these tables by a √ has been reviewed by Mazars with a reasonable level of assurance.

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
 environment: managing sustainability challenges
170
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT4Detailed explanation
Emissions reported for previous years have changed since our last 
report for the following reasons:
 —  two new countries (Columbia and United Arab Emirates) have 
been onboarded on the carbon accounting system; 
 —  the emissions from purchased goods and services has 
been been updated for all years to reflect improvements 
in methodology, specifically the incorporation of more 
supplier -specific data from CDP and product -specific data 
on hardware, as well as the identification of new emission 
factors that are more relevant either to the category or 
geography of the purchase; 
 —  some data centers leased by Capgemini are being managed 
by a third party now. Therefore, their emissions have moved 
from Scope 1 & 2 to Scope 3 for all years; 
 —  we have received updated information for some countries and 
corrected minor errors. To ensure year on year comparability, 
data for all years has been updated where relevant to do so; 
 —  the last two points are the reason for the change in the 
Scope 2 location based emissions.
Due to the timing of the reporting, full data for Q4 2023 was not 
available and therefore has been extrapolated. In addition, where 
data is not available (for example, in case of landlords not providing 
accurate data) appropriate estimation methods are deployed.
Scope 1 emissions relate to direct emissions from buildings or assets 
– for Capgemini this includes fuel consumption and fluorinated 
gas (F-gas) used in air conditioning units of the offices and data 
centers under the Company’s operational control.
Scope 2 emissions are emissions associated with the consumption 
of purchased electricity, heat, or steam. The reduction in our 
Scope 2 emissions is the result of a significant increase in the use 
of renewable electricity. Scope 2 electricity emissions have been 
calculated using the GHG Protocol’s market -based approach in the 
main body of the table and in the aggregated emissions totals, 
with the alternative method of location‑based  emissions detailed. 
Details of the methodology are provided in methodology Section.
Scope 3 emissions are indirect greenhouse gas emissions (not 
included in scope 2) that occur in the value chain. For Capgemini, 
relevant GHG Protocol emission categories include 3.1 purchased 
goods and services, 3.3 fuel- and energy -related activities (not 
included in scope 1 or scope 2), 3.5 waste management, 3.6 business 
travel, 3.7 employee commuting (including working from home) 
and emissions associated with water supply and treatment. 
Category 3.1 also includes emissions associated with 3.2 capital 
goods and 3.4 upstream transportation and distribution as there 
is not currently a satisfactory way of separating these emissions.Other Scope 3 categories have been evaluated according to the 
GHG Protocol criteria, focusing particularly on the size of emissions, 
the level of stakeholder interest and our ability to influence these 
emissions, and have been determined as not relevant.
Operational emissions include emissions from all sources from 
the table above except the line 3.1 Purchased goods and services.
Until 2021, the emissions from energy and refrigerants of all data 
centers were reported in Scope 1 & 2. Over the last few years, 
Capgemini has transitioned from having a majority of leased data 
centers to having a majority of third party managed data centers 
which are now reported under scope 3.1 emissions, but as a separate 
line for full transparency.
As recommended by the GHG Protocol, emissions of F-gas not 
covered by the Kyoto Protocol such as chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) 
are not reported as Scope 1 emissions and are therefore not included 
above. These F-gas emissions are, however, captured with a value 
of 586 tons of CO2e for 2023.
Our business travel emissions have been calculated including the 
impact of radiative forcing for air travel and we have also accounted 
for hotel emissions. We also include company cars within the 
business travel category, as they are not owned or leased directly 
by Capgemini but by employees. Not all companies in our sector 
take this approach so direct comparisons should be made with 
appropriate awareness and caution.
Business travel emissions in 2023 have increased by 26% compared 
to 2022 mainly on account of increase in 2023 DEFRA emission 
factors for air travel (which accounts for 69% of business travel 
emissions). If the air travel emission factor were at the same level 
as 2022, then the increase in business travel emissions in 2023 
would have been only 6% compared to 2022.
Actual emissions of company bus and company cabs in India have 
replaced the emissions calculated through the survey conducted in 
2022 and 2023. For Belgium and Luxembourg, car emissions have 
been excluded from commute as they are already accounted for 
under business travel. Emissions due to use of kettle, and personal 
printers/scanners have been excluded from work from home 
emissions of 2022 as they were found to be minimal and this makes 
the results consistent and comparable with the rest of the years.
2023 emissions from employee commuting have increased by 19% 
compared to 2022 as more employees have started working in the 
office following the easing of Covid restrictions in 2022 (especially 
in India, which accounts for more than half of the headcount).

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
 environment: managing sustainability challenges
171
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI4b)  Carbon intensity
Metrics unit 2019 2022 2023 % change 
vs 2019% change 
vs 2022
operational emissions per headcount  
(average total headcount)tCO2e/head 3.11 1.07 1.27 -59% 19%
Total emissions per headcount  
(average total headcount)tCO2e/head 4.23 2.11 2.27 √ -46% 7%
Total emissions per million euros of revenue tCO2e/million euros 80.10 33.63 35.19 -56% 5%
Scope: Capgemini group.
√ Data identified in these tables by a √ has been reviewed by Mazars with a reasonable level of assurance.
Operational emissions include all Scope 1 and 2 emissions, and 
all Scope 3 emissions associated with energy use, 3rd party data 
centers, business travel, employee commuting, working from 
home, waste, and water. Emissions from purchased goods and 
services are excluded.
The per employee calculation is based on the average headcount for 
each calendar year. The headcount used to calculate the “emissions 
per head” differs from the headcount data included elsewhere in 
the report. The main reason for this is that the headcount published each year from 2019 onwards includes the average headcount of 
Capgemini and headcount of significant acquisitions made after 
2019. This approach is taken as it enables a much more consistent 
and more accurate comparison of year -on-year emissions per head.
Emissions per employee have increased compared to 2022 as 
more employees are travelling and commuting to office after 
the Covid restrictions were lifted in first half of 2022. Due to our 
hybrid way of working, the emissions remain significantly lower 
than pre-Covid levels.
c)  net zero performance indicators
headline ( sBTi) targets unit 2030 target 2019 2022 2023 % change 
vs 2019% change 
vs 2022
Absolute Scope 1 and 2 emissions tCO2e -80% 
absolute153,877 18,916 13,328 √ -91% -30%
Business travel emissions per headcount 
(average total headcount)tCO2e/head -55% per 
employee1.26 0.40 0.50 √ -60% 26%
employee commuting emissions per 
headcount (average total headcount)tCO2e/head -55% per 
employee1.08 0.36 0.50 √ -54% 36%
Purchased goods and services – Scope 3 tCO2e -50% 
absolute299,887 365,650 349,522 √ 17% -4%
Scope: Capgemini group.
√ Data identified in these tables by a √ has been reviewed by Mazars with a reasonable level of assurance.
As noted previously, our business travel emissions have increased 
compared to 2022 mainly due to a major increase in DEFRA  2023 
emissions factors for air travel. The commuting emissions per 
employee have increased in 2023 after the Covid restrictions were 
lifted in the first half of 2022.The commuting emissions/employee figures reported here are 
aligned to the SBTi target methodology and therefore excludes 
the impact of working from home.
supporting targets unit Target 2022 2023 % change 
vs 2022
Total energy use  
– % of electricity from renewables% 100% in 2025 88% 96% √ 9%
% of electric vehicles in Company car fleet % 100% in 2030 24% 34% 42%
Scope: Capgemini group.
√ Data identified in these tables by a √ has been reviewed by Mazars with a reasonable level of assurance.

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
 environment: managing sustainability challenges
172
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT4The share of renewable electricity has been restated for 2019 and 
2022 to exclude the impact of additional data centers that were moved under third party management in 2023. For full transparency 
we disclose this data point in the table below.
d)  energy
 Metrics unit 2019 2022 2023  % change 
vs 2019% change 
vs 2022
Office Office energy use – Diesel/Gas oil MWh 11,415 4,114 4,145 -64% 1%
Office energy use – District cooling MWh 2,499 1,423 1,456 -42% 2%
Office energy use – District Heating MWh 7,494 12,618 10,391 39% -18%
Office energy use – LPG MWh 3,413 610 795 -77% 30%
Office energy use – Natural gas MWh 21,284 15,619 13,614 -36% -13%
Office energy use – Non -renewable electricity MWh 205,901 20,047 6,646 -97% -67%
Office energy use – Renewable electricity  
(Onsite)MWh 7,739 11,724 14,051 82% 20%
Office energy use – Renewable electricity 
(Purchased)MWh 72,832 137,715 148,075 103% 8%
Office energy use – Total MWh 332,576 203,871 199,173 √ ‑40% ‑2%
Office energy use – % Electricity from renewables % 28% 88% 96%   
Office energy use – Office energy usage per area MWh/m 2 0.14 0.09 0.09 √ -33% 1%
data Center
(Leased)Data centers (Leased) energy use – Diesel/Gas oil MWh 72 73 73 1% - %
Data centers (Leased) energy use – Natural gas MWh - - -   
Data centers (Leased) energy use  
– Non -renewable electricityMWh 2,557 - - -100%  
Data centers (Leased) energy use  
– Renewable electricityMWh 1,910 1,976 1,807 -5% -9%
Data centers (Leased) energy use – Total MWh 4,540 2,049 1,880 ‑59% ‑8%
Data centers (Leased) energy use  
– % Electricity from renewables% 43% 100% 100% 134% - %
Total Total energy use MWh 337,116 205,920 201,053 √ ‑40% ‑2% 
Total energy use  
– % of electricity from renewables% 28% 88% 96% √   
Total energy use  
– % of energy from renewables% 24% 74% 82%   

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
 environment: managing sustainability challenges
173
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI4 Metrics unit 2019 2022 2023  % change 
vs 2019% change 
vs 2022
data Center
(Third party 
managed)Data centers (Third party managed) energy use  
– Diesel/Gas oilMWh 257 270 144 -44% -47%
Data centers (Third party managed) energy use  
– Natural gasMWh 30 10 0 -100% -100%
Data centers (Third party managed) energy use  
– Non -renewable electricityMWh 26,195 10,661 5,575 -79% -48%
Data centers (Third party managed) energy use  
– Renewable electricityMWh 56,768 44,652 38,684 -32% -13%
Data centers (Third party managed)  
energy use – TotalMWh 83,250 55,593 44,404 ‑47% ‑20%
Data centers (Third party managed) energy use  
– % of electricity from renewables% 68% 81% 87%   
Scope: Capgemini group.
√ Data identified in these tables by a √ has been reviewed by Mazars with a reasonable level of assurance.
(1) Regulations (EU) 2020/852 (UE) 2021/2139, (UE) 2023/2486, (UE) 2023/2485 and June 2023 FAQs, on establishing a framework to facilitate sustainable investments and 
amending Regulation (EU) 2019 -2088.
(2) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2023/2486 supplementing above Regulations by specifying the content and presentation of information to be disclosed by under -
takings subject to Articles 19a or 29a of Directive 2013/34/EU concerning environmentally sustainable economic activities and specifying the methodology to comply with 
that disclosure obligation.“Renewable Electricity” denotes all renewable electricity purchased 
through power purchase agreements, renewable electricity tariffs 
or through unbundled renewable electricity certificates and the 
amount of energy generated on -site in e.g. India through solar 
photovoltaic panels. “Non-Renewable Electricity” means purchased 
electricity generated from other sources (nuclear or fossil fuels).
As noted above in the GHG emissions by Scope table, most of our 
data centers have transitioned from being leased to being third party 
managed. For full transparency, we report the energy consumption 
associated with both above but to ensure alignment with RE100 
we have excluded third party data centers from the Total Energy 
Consumption and the % electricity/energy from renewables.
4215  Environmental objectives eligible and 
aligned revenues, capital expenditures and 
operating expenses (EU Taxonomy)
a)  Context
The EU Taxonomy Regulation (1) is a key component of the European 
Commission’s action plan on sustainable finance to redirect capital 
flows towards a more sustainable economy. It represents an 
important step towards achieving carbon neutrality by 2050 as 
the EU Taxonomy is a classification system for environmentally 
“sustainable” economic activities.
As a group subject to the obligation to publish non -financial 
information pursuant to Article 29a of Directive 2013/34/EU, 
Capgemini falls within the scope of Art. 8 EU Taxonomy Regulation. 
We are obliged to disclose information on how and to what extent 
our activities are:
 —  “eligible”, i.e., included in the restricted list of activities 
published by the EU Taxonomy. Taxonomy “eligible” 
economic activity means an economic activity that is listed 
and described in the delegated acts irrespective of whether 
that economic activity meets any or all of the “environmental” 
criteria laid down in those delegated acts; —  “aligned”, i.e., classified as environmentally sustainable 
if they make a significant contribution to one or more of 
the environmental objectives by being compliant with 
defined “technical screening criteria” established by the EU 
Commission through delegated acts. At the same time, such 
economic activity must not significantly harm any of the other 
environmental objectives. The environmental objectives 
defined in the EU Taxonomy Regulation are as follows: climate 
change mitigation, climate change adaptation, sustainable 
use and protection of water and marine resources, transition 
to a circular economy, pollution prevention and control, 
protection and restoration of biodiversity and ecosystems. 
Furthermore, theses economic activities must be carried out 
in compliance with minimum social safeguards.
For the reporting period 2023, the Art. 8 Delegated Act (2) requests 
limited disclosures only for the last 4 environmental objectives, i.e. 
only the proportion of Taxonomy -eligibility in our total turnover, 
capital expenditure and operational expenditure.
When referring to “chapters” in this Section 4.2.1.5, we do not 
refer to other Sections of the URD but to the chapters of the EU 
Taxonomy Regulation.
b)  Taxonomy listed activities applied to Capgemini
We have examined all taxonomy -eligible economic activities 
listed in the Climate Delegated Act based on our activities in the 
professional IT services market and in the engineering, research and 
development market. The Climate Delegated Regulation focuses 
first on those economic activities and sectors that have the greatest 
potential to achieve the objective of climate change mitigation, 
i.e., the need to avoid producing greenhouse gas emissions, to 
reduce such emissions or to increase greenhouse gas removals and 
long -term carbon storage. The sectors covered notably include 
energy, selected manufacturing activities, transport and buildings.

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
 environment: managing sustainability challenges
174
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT4We concluded that the Capgemini activities covered by the 
Climate Delegated Act and consequently Taxonomy -eligible can 
be summarized as follows:
For the climate change mitigation (“CCM”) objective , as described 
in Annex 1 to the Climate Delegated Act:As per Chapter “8.1 Data processing, hosting and related activities”. 
Capgemini is delivering data processing services for its clients in the 
Cloud, or in data centers either owned by the client, in colocation 
centers or in our own data centers.
Capgemini’s services or offers considered as
Taxonomy -eligible to 8.1 (CCM) Taxonomy- aligned to 8.1 (CCM)
For the purpose of Taxonomy -eligible reporting, 
we only consider the data services we can 
allocate to our owned and co -located data 
centers.For the purpose of taxonomy -aligned reporting, we collect information related to our 
owned or co -located data centers related to:
 —  Implementation of all relevant practices listed as “expected practices” in the most 
recent version of the European code of conduct on data center energy efficiency.
 —  Verification by an independent third -party at least every 3 years.
 —  G l o b a l  w a rming potential (GWP) of refrigerants used in the data center cooling 
system below 675.
As per Chapter “8.2 Data -driven solutions for GHG emissions 
reductions”, in the form of projects where we support our clients in 
designing and implementing solutions aiming at their greenhouse gas emission reduction. Such projects typically address our clients’ 
operations, manufacturing, supply chain or IT.
Capgemini’s services or offers considered as
Taxonomy -eligible to 8.2 (CCM) Taxonomy- aligned to 8.2 (CCM)
For the purpose of Taxonomy -eligible reporting 
we consider the client projects where we 
implement offers that mainly aim at addressing 
sustainability issues and more specifically  
related to reduction or avoidance of GHG 
emissionsFor the purpose of Taxonomy -aligned reporting we consider the client projects meeting 
the following technical screening criteria:
 —  The solutions are predominantly used for the provision of data and analytics 
enabling GHG emission reductions
 —  Where an alternative solution is available, demonstration of lifecycle GHG emission 
savings compared to the best alternative.
We consider that the first condition requires that project related carbon savings are 
estimated following agreed method.
The second condition is not applicable as Capgemini always delivers client specific solutions.
As per Chapter “9.1 Close to market research, development and 
innovation”, activities in the form of projects where we support our clients in designing and implementing sustainable products 
and services.
Capgemini’s services or offers considered as
Taxonomy -eligible to 9.1 (CCM) Taxonomy- aligned to 9.1 (CCM)
For the purpose of Taxonomy -eligible reporting 
we consider the client projects where we 
support products and services development 
and engineering more specifically related 
to products and services with reduced GHG 
emissions.For the purpose of Taxonomy -aligned reporting we consider the client projects meeting 
the following technical screening criteria:
 —  The results of the projects enable client activities to meet the respective criteria 
for substantial contribution to climate change mitigation.
 —  The projects aim at bringing to market a solution that is not yet in t he market and 
is expected to have a better performance in terms of life -cycle GHG emissions than 
best commercially available, or adds significant new advantages (such as lower 
cost, improved technological and economic feasibility, facilitated scaling up).
For the climate change adaptation (“CCA”) objective,  as described 
in Annex 2 to the Climate Delegated Act, only activity described in 
Chapter “9.1 Engineering activities and related technical consultancy 
dedicated to adaptation to climate change”, activities in the form of 
projects where we help our clients model and adapt to the climate 
risks and impacts, could be applicable to Capgemini. To be noted 
that in case projects reported as eligible under chapters 8.1 or 8.2 of 
Annex 1 related to CCM do also serve the CCA objective, they would 
be eligible to this objective in the below multi -objective table. In 
2023 we did not identify projects related to the CCA objective.For the water and marine resources (“WT r”) objective , as described 
in Annex 3 to the Climate Delegated Act, only activities described 
in Chapter “1.1. Manufacture, installation and associated services 
for leakage control technologies enabling leakage reduction and 
prevention in water supply systems” and in Chapter “4.1. Provision of 
IT/OT data -driven solutions for leakage reduction”, might be eligible 
for Capgemini. No projects of this type have been identified in 2023 .

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
 environment: managing sustainability challenges
175
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI4For the circular economy (“C e”) objective , as described in Annex 
4 to the Climate Delegated Act, only activities described in Chapter 
“4.1. Provision of IT/OT data -driven solutions”, could be applicable 
to Capgemini and thereby eligible. No projects of this type have 
been identified in 2023 .
For the 2 remaining objectives, pollution prevention and control 
(“PPC”) and biodiversity and ecosystems (“BI o”), no activities 
listed in the annexes to the Climate Delegated Act are applicable 
to Capgemini.
c)  details on Taxonomy Key Performance Indicators (“KPIs”)
1.  eligible and Aligned revenues
Similar to previous years, the analysis of the EU Taxonomy list of 
activities related to the climate objectives leads to the conclusion that 
Capgemini’s revenues are to a large extent Taxonomy non -eligible 
(i.e., not in scope of the EU Taxonomy Regulation), and consequently 
not aligned, because our main economic activities are not identified 
as a materially relevant source of emissions and therefore mainly 
not covered by the Climate Delegated Regulation to date.
The proportion of Taxonomy -eligible or aligned economic activities 
in our total revenues has been calculated as the portion of net 
revenue derived from services associated with Taxonomy -eligible 
or aligned economic activities (numerator) divided by the net 
revenues (denominator), in each case for the financial year from 
1.1.2023 to 31.12.2023.
The denominator of the revenues KPIs is based on our Group 
consolidated net revenues in accordance with IAS 1.82(a) and  
amounts to €22,522 million in 2023 compared with €21,995 million 
in 2022 (see Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements 
disclosed in the Section 5.2 of this document).The determination of the eligible revenue of the activity “8.1 Data 
processing, hosting and related activities”, has been performed 
by reference to the relevant offers in the segment “Portfolio of 
services” tracked in our Global Financial System (GFS) by the Global 
Business Line Cloud Infrastructure Services. As none of the data 
centers analyzed complies with all of the above listed technical 
screening criteria, we are not in a position to report aligned revenue.
The determination of the eligible revenues of the activities 
“8.2 Data -driven solutions for greenhouse gas emissions reductions” 
and “9.1 Close to market research, development and innovation” is 
based on a list of client projects and their tagging to Group offers 
that aim at reducing the client’s operations or products and services 
GHG emission. These offers are tracked in our sales reporting 
system and the related revenue has been estimated based on the 
contractual and operational information reported there as well. 
Considering the FAQ13 of the Commission Notice (C/2023/305), 
that authorizes undertakings to report all its eligible activities as 
not Taxonomy -aligned, without any further assessment, when 
those Taxonomy -eligible activities are not material and checking 
compliance with technical screening criteria suffering from lack of 
data and evidence, Capgemini has decided to report all its revenues 
as not Taxonomy -aligned.
Consequently, for the financial year 2023, the proportion 
of Taxonomy -eligible revenues amounts to 3% of our Total  
consolidated revenues, based on €739 million of net consolidated 
revenues derived from Taxonomy -eligible economic activities (as 
defined in the table above) and the proportion of Taxonomy‑aligned 
revenues is nil, given that we did not assess further alignment, 
same as in 2022.

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
 environment: managing sustainability challenges
176
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT4The breakdown of our Taxonomy -eligible and Taxonomy -aligned revenues KPIs by economic activity is presented in the following table:
Table 1 – Turnover
Proportion of turnover from products or services associated with Taxonomy-aligned economic activities – disclosure covering 
year 2023
Financial Year 2023 Year substantial contribution criteria DNSH Criteria (‘Does Not Significantly Harm’)     
economic activities Code(s) TurnoverProportion 
of 
turnover, 
2023Climate 
change 
mitigationClimate 
change 
adaptation Water PollutionCircular 
economyBio-
diversityClimate 
change 
mitigationClimate 
change 
adaptation Water PollutionCircular 
economy BiodiversityMinimum 
safeguardsProportion 
of Taxonomy 
aligned (A.1.) or 
eligible (A.2.) 
turnover, 2022Category 
enabling 
activityCategory 
transitional 
activity
 €m % Y; N; N/EL Y; N; N/EL Y; N; N/EL Y; N; N/EL Y; N; N/EL Y; N; N/EL Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N % E T
A. TAXONOMY ‑ELIGIBLE 
ACTIVITIES                    
A1 Environmentally 
sustainable activities 
(Taxonomy -aligned)                    
Turnover of environmentally 
sustainable activities 
(Taxonomy -aligned) (A.1) - -              -   
Of which Enabling - -              - E  
Of which Transitional - -              -  T
A.2 Taxonomy‑eligible 
but not environmentally 
sustainable activities 
(not Taxonomy -aligned 
activities)                    
   EL; N/EL EL; N/EL EL; N/EL EL; N/EL EL; N/EL EL; N/EL           
8.1 Data processing, hosting 
and related activities CCM 8.1 525 2% EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL        497   
8.2 Data -driven solutions for 
greenhouse gaz emissions 
reductions CCM 8.2 214 1% EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL        122   
Turnover of Taxonomy -eligible 
not but not environmentally 
sustainable activities (not 
Taxonomy -aligned activities) (A.2) 739 3% 100% - - - - -        3%   
Total Turnover of Taxonomy 
eligible activities  
(A1 + A 2) (A) 739 3% 100% - - - - -        3%   
B. TAXONOMY ‑NON ‑
ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES                   
Turnover of Taxonomy -non-
eligible activities (B) 21,783 97%                 
TOTAL (A + B) 22,522 100%                 

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
 environment: managing sustainability challenges
177
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI4The proportion of revenues contributing to multiple objectives is as follows:
 Proportion of turnover/Total turnover
 Taxonomy -aligned per objective Taxonomy -eligible per objective
CCM - 3%
CCA - -
WTR - -
CE - -
PPC - -
BIO - -Financial Year 2023 Year substantial contribution criteria DNSH Criteria (‘Does Not Significantly Harm’)     
economic activities Code(s) TurnoverProportion 
of 
turnover, 
2023Climate 
change 
mitigationClimate 
change 
adaptation Water PollutionCircular 
economyBio-
diversityClimate 
change 
mitigationClimate 
change 
adaptation Water PollutionCircular 
economy BiodiversityMinimum 
safeguardsProportion 
of Taxonomy 
aligned (A.1.) or 
eligible (A.2.) 
turnover, 2022Category 
enabling 
activityCategory 
transitional 
activity
 €m % Y; N; N/EL Y; N; N/EL Y; N; N/EL Y; N; N/EL Y; N; N/EL Y; N; N/EL Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N % E T
A. TAXONOMY ‑ELIGIBLE 
ACTIVITIES                    
A1 Environmentally 
sustainable activities 
(Taxonomy -aligned)                    
Turnover of environmentally 
sustainable activities 
(Taxonomy -aligned) (A.1) - -              -   
Of which Enabling - -              - E  
Of which Transitional - -              -  T
A.2 Taxonomy‑eligible 
but not environmentally 
sustainable activities 
(not Taxonomy -aligned 
activities)                    
   EL; N/EL EL; N/EL EL; N/EL EL; N/EL EL; N/EL EL; N/EL           
8.1 Data processing, hosting 
and related activities CCM 8.1 525 2% EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL        497   
8.2 Data -driven solutions for 
greenhouse gaz emissions 
reductions CCM 8.2 214 1% EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL        122   
Turnover of Taxonomy -eligible 
not but not environmentally 
sustainable activities (not 
Taxonomy -aligned activities) (A.2) 739 3% 100% - - - - -        3%   
Total Turnover of Taxonomy 
eligible activities  
(A1 + A 2) (A) 739 3% 100% - - - - -        3%   
B. TAXONOMY ‑NON ‑
ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES                   
Turnover of Taxonomy -non-
eligible activities (B) 21,783 97%                 
TOTAL (A + B) 22,522 100%                 

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
 environment: managing sustainability challenges
178
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT42.  eligible and Aligned Cap ex
We have analyzed the existence of CapEx directly associated with the 
above eligible and aligned activities of the Group. The investments 
in our fully managed data centers or in co -located data centers 
are not material in 2023, as it was the case in 2022. As regards 
activities under chapters 8.2 and 9.1, these are client projects that 
do not lead to CapEx which could be directly attributed to them.
Allocating our overall CapEx to the eligible or aligned activities is 
considered not material and not relevant.
We have identified activities resulting in CapEx which can be 
considered as individually eligible or aligned activities. We have 
considered as Taxonomy -eligible or aligned, CapEx related to this category when the purchased output or individual measure meets 
the description of its respective economic activity, e.g., purchase 
of output from a Taxonomy -eligible or aligned economic activity.
And we have considered in these categories the assets we own 
(legal ownership) as well as the assets we rent as lessee (economic 
ownership).
Consequently, our individually eligible or aligned CapEx can be 
summarized as follows:
As per Chapter “6.5 Transport by motorbikes, passenger cars and 
light commercial vehicles”, our fleet of vehicles and notably leased 
company cars:
Capgemini’s investments considered as
Taxonomy -eligible to 6.5 (CCM) Taxonomy- aligned to 6.5. (CCM) Taxonomy- aligned to 6.5. (CCA)
All our new cars acquired or leased (incl.  
renewal of lease contracts) in 2023  
irrespective of the level of GHG emissions 
of those vehicles.Only the new cars acquired or leased in 2023 
which comply with:
substantial contribution criteria:
For vehicles of category M1 and N1 (light 
motor vehicles), specific emissions of CO2 
are lower than 50g CO2/km.
do Not Significant Harm:
 —  Adaptation – Robust climate risk and  
vulnerability assessment and imple -
mentation  of adaptation measures.Only the new cars acquired or leased in 2023 
which comply with:
substantial contribution criteria:
Robust climate risk and vulnerability  
assessment and implementation of  
adaptation measures.
do Not Significant Harm:
 —  Mitigation  – For vehicles of category 
M1 and N1 (light motor vehicles), 
specific emissions of  CO2 are lower 
than  respectively 95g and 147g CO2/km.
 —  Circular economy  – (a) reusable or recyclable to a minimum of 85% by weight;  
(b) reusable or recoverable to a minimum of 95% by weight and Measures are in place 
to manage waste both in the use phase (maintenance) and the end -of-life of the 
fleet.
 —  Pollution  – Compliance with Euro 6; Tyres in the highest populated classes in terms 
of external ro lling noise and rolling resistance and compliance with motor sound 
level regulation.
As per chapters “7.7 Acquisition and ownership of buildings”, our acquisitions (mostly economic ownership as lessee with the right of 
use), of our office buildings.

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
 environment: managing sustainability challenges
179
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI4Capgemini’s investments considered as
Taxonomy -eligible to 7.7 (CCM) Taxonomy- aligned to 7.7. (CCM) Taxonomy- aligned to 7.7. (CCA)
All our new buildings acquired or leased (incl. 
renewal of lease contracts) in 2023, irrespective 
of the energy efficiency of those buildings.Only the new buildings acquired or leased 
in 2023 which comply with:
substantial contribution criteria:
 — For buildings built before 31.12.2020,  
DPE class A or PED of the building  
(Primary Energy Demand) in the Top 15% 
of the national or regional building stock
and
For large non -residential building, it is  
efficiently operated through energy 
performance monitoring and assessment
 — For buildings built after 31.12.2020,  
PED of the building below NZEB -10%
and
For buildings larger than 5000m², testing 
for air -tightness and thermal integrity and 
calculation of the life -cycle Global Warming 
Potential (GWP) of the building resulting 
from the construction.
Do Not Significant Harm:
 —  Adaptation – Robust climate risk 
and vulnerability assessment and 
implementation of adaptation 
measures.Only the new buildings acquired or leased 
in 2023 which comply with:
substantial contribution criteria: 
Robust climate risk and vulnerability  
assessment and implementation of  
adaptation measures.
Do Not Significant Harm:
 —  Mitigation – The building is not intended 
for the extraction, storage, transport or 
manufacture of fossil fuels
 — For buildings built before 31.12.2020, 
DPE class C at least or PED of the building 
(Primary Energy Demand) in the Top 30% 
of the national or regional building stock
 — For buildings built after 31.12.2020, 
PED of the building not exceeding 
NZEB requirements in national 
regulation implementing Directive 
2010/31/EU. 
As regards the compliance with minimum safeguards, the group 
initiatives and processes are described in the Section 4 of this URD. 
Notably our main vehicles suppliers also publish a sustainability 
report highlighting how they comply with the relevant guidelines 
and principles for assessing the minimum safeguards. For smaller 
suppliers, we rely on our procurement policies (of which our 
Supplier Standards of Conduct ), including ethical requirements and 
supplier selection.
The CapEx KPI is defined as Taxonomy -eligible or aligned CapEx 
(numerator) divided by our total consolidated CapEx (denominator). 
Total CapEx consists of additions to tangible and intangible fixed 
assets during the financial year, before depreciation, amortization 
and any re -measurements, including those resulting from 
revaluations and impairments, as well as excluding changes in fair 
value. It includes additions to fixed assets (IAS 16), intangible assets 
(IAS 38) and right -of-use assets (IFRS 16). Additions resulting from 
business combinations are also included. Goodwill is not included in 
CapEx as it is not defined as an intangible asset in accordance with 
IAS 38. Accordingly, our Group total consolidated CapEx amounts 
to €678 million in 2023 compared with €579 million in 2022 ( see 
Notes 13, 14 and 15  to the consolidated financial statements 
disclosed in the Section 5.2. of this document).
As regards CapEx amount for “6.5 Transport by motorbikes, 
passenger cars and light commercial vehicles”, it results from our 
centralized tracking of additions to company fleet and related Right of use calculation. We also track the car specific CO2 emission 
and are therefore in a position to report that 72%, compared with 
64% in 2022, of our total additions do meet the technical criteria 
of less than 50gCO2/km. However, for now, our leasing partners 
are not able to provide us with all DNSH information for us to 
report full alignment.
As regards CapEx amount for “7.7 Acquisition and ownership of 
buildings”, it also results from our centralized tracking of new real 
estate lease contracts and related Right of use calculation. To analyze 
if and which buildings meet the above technical criteria, notably of 
Primary energy demand we have scanned lease contracts and in 
some instances requested energy certificates from lessors. Based 
on that we have been able to assess the value and portion of 2023 
additions to Right of use that meets the technical criteria (ie top 
15% in terms of PED); ie 39% of our total additions, compared with 
13% in 2022. However not all these buildings do meet the DNSH 
conditions on climate change adaptation, and we therefore report 
Taxonomy -alignment on 25% of our real estate lease additions of 
the year, compared with 10% in 2022.
Consequently, for the financial year 2023, the proportion of 
Taxonomy -eligible and aligned Cap ex amounts to 59% and 11% 
of our total consolidated Cap ex, respectively (compared with 
40% and 3% in 2022), based on €403 million of Taxonomy‑eligible 
CapEx, and €77 million of Taxonomy‑aligned CapEx.

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
 environment: managing sustainability challenges
180
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT4The breakdown of our Taxonomy -eligible and Taxonomy -aligned CapEx KPIs by economic activity is presented in the following table:
Table 2 – CapEx
Proportion of Cap ex from products or services associated with Taxonomy-aligned economic activities – disclosure covering year 2023
Financial Year 2023 Year substantial contribution criteria DNSH Criteria (“Does Not Significantly Harm”)     
economic activities Code(s) Cap exProportion 
of Cap ex, 
2023Climate 
change 
mitigationClimate 
change 
adaptation Water PollutionCircular 
economyBio-
diversityClimate 
change 
mitigationClimate 
change 
adaptation Water PollutionCircular 
economy BiodiversityMinimum 
safeguardsProportion 
of Taxonomy 
aligned (A.1.) or 
eligible (A.2.) 
Cap ex, 2022Category 
enabling 
activityCategory 
transitional 
activity
 €m % Y; N; N/EL Y; N; N/EL Y; N; N/EL Y; N; N/EL Y; N; N/EL Y; N; N/EL Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N % E T
A TAXONOMY-ELIGIBLE 
ACTIVITIES                    
A1 Environmentally 
sustainable activities 
(Taxonomy -aligned)                    
7.7 Acquisition and  
ownership of buildings CCM 7.7 77 11% Y N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL Y Y Y Y Y Y Y 3%   
CapEx of environmentally 
sustainable activities 
(Taxonomy -aligned) (A.1) 77 11% 100% - - - - - Y Y Y Y Y Y Y 3%   
Of which Enabling - -               E  
Of which Transitional - -                T
A.2 Taxonomy‑eligible 
but not environmentally 
sustainable activities 
(not Taxonomy -aligned 
activities)                    
   EL; N/EL EL; N/EL EL; N/EL EL; N/EL EL; N/EL EL; N/EL           
7.7 Acquisition and  
ownership of buildingsCCM 7.7/
CCA 7.7 232 34% EL EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL        25%   
6.5 Transport by motorbikes, 
passenger cars and light 
commercial vehiclesCCM 6.5/
CCA 6.5 94 14% EL EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL        12%   
CapEx of Taxonomyeligible 
but not environmentally 
sustainable activities (not 
Taxonomy -aligned activities) 
(A.2) 326 48% 100% - - - - -        37%   
CapEx of Taxonomy eligible 
activities (A.1+A.2) (A) 403 59% 100% - - - - -        40%   
B. TAXONOMY ‑NON ‑
ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES                   
CapEx of Taxonomy -non-
eligible activities (B) 275 41%                 
TOTAL (A + B)  678 100%                 

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
 environment: managing sustainability challenges
181
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI4The proportion of CapEx contributing to multiple objectives is as follows:
Proportion of Cap ex/Total Cap ex
Taxonomy -aligned per objective Taxonomy -eligible per objective
CCM 11% 59%
CCA - 48%
WTR - -
CE - -
PPC - -
BIO - -Financial Year 2023 Year substantial contribution criteria DNSH Criteria (“Does Not Significantly Harm”)     
economic activities Code(s) Cap exProportion 
of Cap ex, 
2023Climate 
change 
mitigationClimate 
change 
adaptation Water PollutionCircular 
economyBio-
diversityClimate 
change 
mitigationClimate 
change 
adaptation Water PollutionCircular 
economy BiodiversityMinimum 
safeguardsProportion 
of Taxonomy 
aligned (A.1.) or 
eligible (A.2.) 
Cap ex, 2022Category 
enabling 
activityCategory 
transitional 
activity
 €m % Y; N; N/EL Y; N; N/EL Y; N; N/EL Y; N; N/EL Y; N; N/EL Y; N; N/EL Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N % E T
A TAXONOMY-ELIGIBLE 
ACTIVITIES                    
A1 Environmentally 
sustainable activities 
(Taxonomy -aligned)                    
7.7 Acquisition and  
ownership of buildings CCM 7.7 77 11% Y N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL Y Y Y Y Y Y Y 3%   
CapEx of environmentally 
sustainable activities 
(Taxonomy -aligned) (A.1) 77 11% 100% - - - - - Y Y Y Y Y Y Y 3%   
Of which Enabling - -               E  
Of which Transitional - -                T
A.2 Taxonomy‑eligible 
but not environmentally 
sustainable activities 
(not Taxonomy -aligned 
activities)                    
   EL; N/EL EL; N/EL EL; N/EL EL; N/EL EL; N/EL EL; N/EL           
7.7 Acquisition and  
ownership of buildingsCCM 7.7/
CCA 7.7 232 34% EL EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL        25%   
6.5 Transport by motorbikes, 
passenger cars and light 
commercial vehiclesCCM 6.5/
CCA 6.5 94 14% EL EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL        12%   
CapEx of Taxonomyeligible 
but not environmentally 
sustainable activities (not 
Taxonomy -aligned activities) 
(A.2) 326 48% 100% - - - - -        37%   
CapEx of Taxonomy eligible 
activities (A.1+A.2) (A) 403 59% 100% - - - - -        40%   
B. TAXONOMY ‑NON ‑
ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES                   
CapEx of Taxonomy -non-
eligible activities (B) 275 41%                 
TOTAL (A + B)  678 100%                 

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
 environment: managing sustainability challenges
182
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT43.  eligible opex
The total Taxonomy Opex consists of non -capitalized costs that 
relate to research and development, building renovation measures, 
short -term lease, maintenance and repair, and any other direct 
expenditures relating to the day -to-day servicing of assets of 
property, plant and equipment.
Our assessment of the proportion of Opex along this definition 
leads to the conclusion that these expenditures are not material in 
view of the overall consolidated Opex of Capgemini and considering 
our business model. In fact, as a services company, 79% of the 
Capgemini Operating Expenditures are “personnel expenses” and 15% are “purchases and sub -contracting expenses”, most of it being 
sub-contracting on client projects (see Note 7 to the consolidated 
financial statements disclosed in the Section 5.2. of this document).
Actually the total amount of o pex according to the Taxonomy 
definition amounts to €291 million in 2023, representing 1,5% 
of Capgemini consolidated Opex (compared with €325 million 
and 1,7% in 2022). Consequently, we have used the exemption 
option permitted by the Art.8 delegated act and not calculated 
the shares of eligible or aligned o pex, which are therefore 
considered as being zero.
Table 3 – Opex
Proportion of o pex from products or services associated with Taxonomy-aligned economic activities - disclosure covering year 2023
Financial Year 2023 Year substantial contribution criteria DNSH Criteria (“Does Not Significantly Harm”)
Minimum 
safeguardsCategory 
enabling 
activityCategory 
transitional 
activity economic activities Code(s) opexProportion 
of o pex, 
2023Climate 
change 
mitigationClimate 
change 
adaptation Water PollutionCircular 
economy BiodiversityClimate 
change 
mitigationClimate 
change 
adaptation Water PollutionCircular 
economy BiodiversityProportion 
of Taxonomy 
aligned (A.1.) or 
eligible (A.2.) 
opex, 2022
 €m % Y; N; N/EL Y; N; N/EL Y; N; N/EL Y; N; N/EL Y; N; N/EL Y; N; N/EL Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N % E T
A. TAXONOMY ‑ELIGIBLE 
ACTIVITIES                    
A1 Environmentally 
sustainable activities 
(Taxonomy -aligned)                    
OpEx of environmentally 
sustainable activities 
(Taxonomy -aligned) (A.1)                   
Of which Enabling                 E  
Of which Transitional                  T
A.2 Taxonomy ‑Eligible 
but not environmentally 
sustainable activities 
(not Taxonomy -aligned 
activities)                    
   EL; N/EL EL; N/EL EL; N/EL EL; N/EL EL; N/EL EL; N/EL           
OpEx of Taxonomy -eligible 
not but not environmentally 
sustainable activities (not 
Taxonomy -aligned activities) 
(A.2)                   
Total Opex of Taxonomy 
eligible activities  
(A1 + A 2) (A)                   
B. TAXONOMY ‑NON ‑
ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES ‑ ‑                 
Opex of Taxonomy -non-
eligible activities (B)                   
TOTAL (A + B)  291 ‑                 

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
 environment: managing sustainability challenges
183
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI4 
Financial Year 2023 Year substantial contribution criteria DNSH Criteria (“Does Not Significantly Harm”)
Minimum 
safeguardsCategory 
enabling 
activityCategory 
transitional 
activity economic activities Code(s) opexProportion 
of o pex, 
2023Climate 
change 
mitigationClimate 
change 
adaptation Water PollutionCircular 
economy BiodiversityClimate 
change 
mitigationClimate 
change 
adaptation Water PollutionCircular 
economy BiodiversityProportion 
of Taxonomy 
aligned (A.1.) or 
eligible (A.2.) 
opex, 2022
 €m % Y; N; N/EL Y; N; N/EL Y; N; N/EL Y; N; N/EL Y; N; N/EL Y; N; N/EL Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N % E T
A. TAXONOMY ‑ELIGIBLE 
ACTIVITIES                    
A1 Environmentally 
sustainable activities 
(Taxonomy -aligned)                    
OpEx of environmentally 
sustainable activities 
(Taxonomy -aligned) (A.1)                   
Of which Enabling                 E  
Of which Transitional                  T
A.2 Taxonomy ‑Eligible 
but not environmentally 
sustainable activities 
(not Taxonomy -aligned 
activities)                    
   EL; N/EL EL; N/EL EL; N/EL EL; N/EL EL; N/EL EL; N/EL           
OpEx of Taxonomy -eligible 
not but not environmentally 
sustainable activities (not 
Taxonomy -aligned activities) 
(A.2)                   
Total Opex of Taxonomy 
eligible activities  
(A1 + A 2) (A)                   
B. TAXONOMY ‑NON ‑
ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES ‑ ‑                 
Opex of Taxonomy -non-
eligible activities (B)                   
TOTAL (A + B)  291 ‑                 

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
 environment: managing sustainability challenges
184
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT44. Minimum safeguards
The Group meets the minimum safeguards as set out by the EU 
Taxonomy Regulation. For a detailed description of the Group 
initiatives and processes relating to minimum safeguards, please 
refer to the following Sections: —  Human Rights: Sections 4.3.2.4 & 4.3.2.5; 
 —  Anti-Corruption: Section 4.4.2.1; 
 —  Fair Competition: Section 4.4.2.2; 
 —  T a xation: Section 4.4.2.5.
422  Other environmental challenges
[GRI 303 -5]; [GRI 306 -3]; [GRI 306 -4]; [GRI 306 -5]
[SASB TC-SI-130a.2]
4221  Sustainable use and protection of water
Water risk and baseline water stress is an imperative global issue. 
UNICEF states that almost two thirds of the world’s population 
now experience water scarcity for at least one month each year, 
while half of the world’s population could face water scarcity by 
2025. Capgemini recognizes water scarcity as a key global issue 
which we have a responsibility to act on, starting with managing 
our own water consumption effectively.
a)  Managing water
Capgemini’s primary use of water is for supplying cafeterias and 
sanitary areas at our offices and a few larger offices using water 
for maintaining landscaping and water features. Over the last few 
years, we have invested in measures to reduce our freshwater 
demand, from smaller initiatives such as hot water taps for hot 
drinks and low water toilet flush systems, to large scale investment 
in rainwater harvesting and sewage water treatment facilities.
In 2023, our total water consumption was over 1,040,000 m³, with 
almost all of that being used at our offices. Our water consumption 
has reduced by 44% since 2019, mainly due to reduced office 
occupancy during the pandemic and the shift to hybrid working. 
As employees gradually start spending more time in the office, 
we are taking steps to reduce our freshwater consumption and 
increase water recycling.
We are using the WRI Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas and the WWF 
Water Risk Filter to help us identify water -related risks and prioritize 
actions. The WWF screening suggests that we have a medium level 
of water risk across our sites and our supply chain. The screening 
from Aqueduct has helped identify 99 sites (a fifth of all sites) 
located in extremely high -risk and high -risk water stressed areas.
We are in the process of developing a more comprehensive global 
view of where we can control, influence, and take further steps 
to reduce our freshwater consumption. Within our Sustainability 
and Health & Safety Handbook, which defines best practices for 
our offices, clear guidance is provided around sustainable water 
management. This includes both mandatory standards around 
leak detection and prevention and recommended best practices 
around rainwater harvesting, greywater treatment and membrane 
sewage treatment.
Across the Group, we have invested in a range of measures to 
reduce our freshwater demand, from large -scale investment in 
membrane sewage treatment plants to smaller measures. The 
biggest focus on actions and investment has been in India, where 
over half of our workforce are based and where water security 
issues are critical and further exacerbated by climate change. India is amongst the most water -stressed regions in the world, 
with only 4% of the world’s freshwater supplies to support 18% 
of the global population.
Simple measures such as low flow plumbing fixtures, urinal sensors, 
and water -saving aerators are used at all sites across India. We 
have also deployed advanced sewage treatment facilities, which 
enable greywater recycling and re -use of water for flushing and 
irrigation. Rainwater harvesting is in use across eight campuses 
in India, through rainwater collection tanks with a total capacity 
of 2,700 KL, slightly larger than an Olympic sized swimming pool. 
Recharge pits make it possible to reuse the water after filtration. 
The campuses are also provisioned with sewage treatment plants 
and zero water is discharged outside the premises. Sewage -treated 
water is used for gardening and flushing.
Our Energy Command Center is being further developed to include 
water management systems, including leakage monitoring. Our 
data centers run on closed -loop systems, avoiding water use, and 
we are working on innovative cooling projects like a closed -loop 
cooling tower which is anticipated to achieve a 50% reduction in 
water consumption.
b)  2023 achievements
Our total water consumption is estimated at over 1.04 million 
cubic meters in 2023. This has increased by 35% since 2022 due to 
more people using our offices as Covid restrictions lifted, though 
overall our water consumption is still down by 44% since our 
baseline year of 2019.
In India, which makes up over 70% of our water consumption, we 
have scaled up water conservation measures in recent years. This 
included in 2023 installing a closed -circuit cooling tower at our 
Noida campus which has reduced water blowdown by 80%. In our 
Hinjewadi campus in Pune, four large (1,750 m³) rainwater collection 
tanks have been installed. Measures to assess and reduce water 
consumption have also been carried out in other parts of the world 
in 2023, including an ISS study to reduce water consumption and 
in France, the deployment of greywater recycling and rainwater 
harvesting in Italy, as well as automated water efficiency equipment 
in Latin America.
Our other focus during 2023 has been on improving our understanding 
of where we can and should take action. In particular our analysis 
using the Aqueduct tool has helped us identify 99 sites located 
in high -risk and extremely high -risk areas. From this list, we have 
identified which sites have the highest potential for improvement 
(the majority of which are either owned sites or leased sites with a 
reasonable level of control over water consumption). These sites 
will be the focus for our improvement plans in 2024.

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
 environment: managing sustainability challenges
185
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI4Metric unit 2019 2022 2023 % change 
vs 2019% change 
vs 2022
Total water consumption Cubic meters 1,865,888 773,633 1,047,802 -44% 35%
Scope: Capgemini group.
The overall increase in water consumption in 2023 reflects the 
significant increase in employees using our offices since Covid 
restrictions were no longer in place in 2023.
4222  Protection and restoration of biodiversity 
and ecosystems
a)  Tackling biodiversity loss
Biodiversity loss, in terms of the speed and scale, is an urgent 
global issue. The Living Planet Index (2022) shows a decline 
of 69% in species populations in just 50 years. In addition, the 
Kunming-Montreal agreement requires a third of the planet to 
be conserved for nature by the end of the decade, restoring 30% 
of the planet’s degraded ecosystems by 2030 to get us on track 
to live in harmony with nature by 2050. Capgemini recognizes 
the scale of the biodiversity crisis and the opportunities we have 
to use our influence, capabilities, and expertise to help halt and 
reverse biodiversity loss. We continued to be a partner of the 
World Biodiversity Summit in 2023, co -hosting a session about the 
role businesses can play in facilitating systemic change and driving 
nature -positive outcomes through their supply chains.
For Capgemini, this starts with a focus on ensuring we tackle our 
own operational impacts on biodiversity. During 2023, we have made 
progress in improving our understanding of our biodiversity impacts 
and setting out our strategy and action plans to address these.
Biodiversity loss is a complex, systemic challenge that requires 
immediate action and investment together with innovative thinking 
to find solutions that ‘bend the curve’, halting and reversing 
biodiversity loss for a nature positive future.
our approach:
 —  Managing our impacts on biodiversity  – We work to reduce 
the impacts of our sites and supply chain on biodiversity and 
implement nature positive initiatives where feasible.
 —  Investing in climate and nature solutions  – Alongside 
our carbon reduction program we are investing in projects 
to remove or abate carbon, whilst also delivering positive 
biodiversity and social impacts.
 —  Applying technology and our expertise to address key 
biodiversity challenges  – We bring an innovative approach 
to ensure technology can contribute to the understanding, 
monitoring and preservation of our biodiversity.
 —  Working with clients   –  We help clients address their key 
sustainability challenges, including addressing the topic of 
biodiversity.
 —  Using our influence and partnerships  – We use our influence 
and networ ks to foster collaboration and collective action.
b)  our Biodiversity Impact assessment
In 2023, we have continued working on the development of a 
biodiversity strategy for the Group. We commissioned a sustainability 
consultancy UTOPIES to support us with an initial biodiversity 
impact assessment, to evaluate the overall biodiversity impacts 
(see Section 4.1.3.3). In addition, we conducted our own screening of risks and opportunities in our direct operations and supply chain, 
using tools available from leading organizations, including the WWF 
Biodiversity Risk Filter and the Integrated Biodiversity Assessment 
Tool (IBAT). The UTOPIES study underlined that Capgemini’s 
impacts are typical for our sector, with a contribution to four of 
the five biodiversity pressures identified by the Intergovernmental 
Science-Policy Platform on Biodiversity and ecosystem Services 
(IPBES) and three being most important (climate change, land use 
and ecotoxicity). As a service provider, both our overall impact on 
biodiversity and our potential for exposure to biodiversity risk is 
mainly located upstream in our supply chain, making responsible 
procurement a key focus for us:
 —  Climate change:  One of our key impacts on biodiversity is 
due to our greenhouse gas emissions, particularly those 
within our supply chain, with hardware, transportation and 
professional services purchases being the highest impact 
categories. An effective contribution we can make to 
reducing our impact on biodiversity loss is to work within 
our operations and with our suppliers to ensure we meet our 
net zero targets. We also ensure that our strategy for carbon 
abatement and removal beyond our value chain includes a 
focus on improving biodiversity.
 —  our use of land:  Our biggest impact on land use change is 
from our supply chain, with key impact areas including the 
manufacture of hardware (e.g. due to extraction of materials) 
and the manufacture of furniture (e.g. due to sourcing of 
wood and plastics). To help us understand potential exposure 
of our office locations to biodiversity risks, we also used the 
WWF biodiversity risk filter and identified 15  sites located 
in areas with high levels of biodiversity risk and a further 
189 sites considered medium risk. The majority of our sites 
are leased with limited external space making our potential 
for positive impact limited, but a priority for 2024 will be 
to identify opportunities to implement nature positive 
initiatives at a site level.
 —  Pollution and ecotoxicity:  Our biggest contribution to air 
and soil pollution is through our supply chain. Our purchase 
of electronic devices, for example, has the potential to cause 
ecosystem damage throughout the product lifecycle, from 
the mining of precious metals to water pollution during 
manufacturing, to air pollution during transportation of 
devices and end -of-life treatment of e -waste.
 —  natural resource use:  As well as materials used such as 
electronic equipment and paper products, we also use water, 
which in t urn impacts the biodiversity of local basins and 
catchments, particularly at sites in areas of high water stress.
Our screening and prioritization showed that our biodiversity 
impacts were highest in our APAC region, which will be a key focus. 
We are currently in the process of developing a comprehensive 
biodiversity strategy with a range of actions across these key impact 
areas, which was approved in 2023 and activities in accordance 
with our action plans commence in 2024. We are also undertaking 
biodiversity baselining through ecological assessment and water 
audits to improve water efficiency, collating these results to 
generate biodiversity improvement plans.

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
 environment: managing sustainability challenges
186
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT4c)  Targets, and 2023 achievements
Whilst we have a relatively limited ability to impact biodiversity in 
our own operations (we do not make physical products and most 
of our buildings are leased), we do assess potential biodiversity 
risks and impacts of our buildings as part of our Environmental 
Management System, and in 2023 we launched a new program to 
work to enhance our understanding of the biodiversity impacts 
associated with our wider value chain.
We preserve and enhance our local environment, where possible. 
The most notable example of this is the Serge Kampf Capgemini 
University at Les Fontaines with sustainability and protection of 
biodiversity central to how the campus is managed. The University 
has a policy that governs the management of the parkland: 
disturbance of nature and wildlife is kept to a minimum, with no 
activity permitted on the lake. We avoid noise pollution, have 
no park lighting and all park maintenance equipment is electric. 
We plant and conserve a wide variety of plants and animals and 
have grown over 50 fruit trees and installed 50 beehives within a 
meadow of honey producing flowers. We are cultivating a meadow 
with plant species for roe deer. In 2023, we carried out a bird and 
forest study across 52 hectares of parkland and are in the process 
of validating our action plan for 2024. We also work with a local 
care center for wild animals, and release several birds – including 
tawny owls, buzzards, falcons – as well as hedgehogs in our park. In 
2024, we will be focusing on agro -forestry initiatives to help local 
farmers. In tandem with these more recent initiatives, we have 
sustained our commitment since 2021 to renovating the English 
Gardens of the Château de Chantilly over a period of three years 
to preserve biodiversity and maintain local historical heritage.
Biodiversity loss is the sort of complex, systemic challenge that 
requires innovative thinking and fresh insights Capgemini teams 
can bring.
Capgemini’s Tech4Positive Futures Challenge, an initiative launched 
in 2022 to challenge employees to partner with a social enterprise, 
government, or NGO of their choice to make an impact in three 
key areas: climate adaptation, biodiversity, and circular economy. 
Hundreds of employees across the Group took part working with 
not-for-profit partners to develop ideas. From over 90 compelling 
proposals, three projects were identified that could help biodiversity 
causes through the application of technology and innovation in 
support of bees, trees and glowing fishing nets.
These three winning projects have been developed over 2023 
receiving support to turn their idea into reality:
 —  e-hive – uK: The team is developing a data -driven rewilding 
tool alongside Pollenize, a community interest company, 
to recommend the best type of seeds to plant in specific 
locations according to biodiversity needs, ultimately 
supporting bees and other pollinators to flourish.
 —  Creating u rban Forests  – Sweden: With their plan for 
urban forests, Capgemini employees built an end -to-end 
data solution to enable their non -profit partner to apply 
the Miyawaki Forests method and restore biodiversity while 
capturing more CO2 than traditional forests. —  solar Powered s mart n ets – North America: A team worked 
to create rene wable energy lit fishing nets designed to 
reduce by -catch such as sea turtles, while maintaining the 
expected target catch rate.
Capgemini is committed to supporting clients in taking positive 
actions for biodiversity. We bring together a unique blend of 
capabilities, technologies, and expertise to help clients achieve 
their biodiversity ambitions. Our unique approach focuses both 
on reducing and avoiding negative impacts to biodiversity and on 
regenerating biodiversity to maximize positive impacts. We leverage 
our capabilities and technologies to address all your biodiversity 
preservation and regeneration challenges, from commitment to 
sustainable achievements.
Our annual Global Data Science Challenge (GDSC) has focused 
on biodiversity. Open to all Capgemini employees, the global 
challenge is a combination of training and competition, supporting 
our sustainability goals. This year, participants are challenged to 
create a data and AI model that recognizes specific sounds to help 
identify and monitor insect species groups in remote habitats (Learn 
more here: https://www.capgemini.com/insights/research-library/
global-data-science-challenge/ ).
Through our investment in projects that will generate high quality 
carbon credits (see Section 4.2.1.3), we are also looking for projects 
with biodiversity co -benefits. For example,
 —  the Miaoling Afforestation Project in China where planting of 
native tree species is helping reverse desertification; 
 —  the Rimba Raya project in Indonesia which will protect around 
160,000  hectares of tropical rainforest and peat swamp, 
home to over 350 species of bird, 122 species of mammal and 
180 tree species.
4223  Transition to a Circular Economy
a)  Waste & Circular e conomy
Managing our waste effectively is important in terms of minimizing 
our use of finite natural resources, as well as being a tangible, 
impactful way of demonstrating our environmental commitments 
to our people.
Waste intrinsically links to procurement – ultimately, every item 
purchased has the potential to become waste unless circular 
economy principles are applied at the outset. The concept of 
“circular economy” is the idea of effectively “closing the loop” – 
maintaining products and materials in a cyclical use phase so that 
waste is designed out of the system. We have applied the principles 
of the circular economy to our own operations in numerous ways, 
from innovative e -waste partnerships to reusing laptops and mobile 
phones, to local initiatives such as swapping disposable cups with 
reusable ones or replacing paper towels by high – efficiency hand 
driers. We have also focused on phasing out single use plastic 
where feasible, through cutting down on unnecessary packaging 
and plastic bags and making the most of reusable water bottles, 
coffee cups and food packaging.

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
 environment: managing sustainability challenges
187
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI4b)  Targets, and 2023 achievements
We have ambitious targets to reduce waste per employee by 80%, 
versus  2019, and to reduce the amount of waste sent to landfill to 
zero with less than 5% incineration by 2030.
Capgemini champions circular thinking to address the shortcomings 
of the current linear economic model and embed circularity 
across our business. Focused on reducing environmental harm, 
we advocate for a shift to a circular economy. In the linear model, 
waste accumulates, depleting limited natural resources and causing 
pollution and climate change. Embracing circularity, waste is 
transformed to a valuable resource, to be re -used or repurposed.
We are working across our Group functions (IT, HR, Procurement, 
Marketing, Real Estate) to reframe the problem of waste from being 
about recycling – to not buying wasteful items in the first place. 
This means not only considering the lifecycle of products we buy, 
but also considering if we need to purchase items.
Focusing on circularity is a pre -requisite for zero waste. Our real 
estate and procurement teams are currently finalizing our roadmap 
to achieve our waste reduction target. We focus on avoiding the 
purchase of items that cannot be fully reused or recycled at the end 
of their life, and also on identifying opportunities for innovation. 
During 2023, we developed Capgemini’s Global Zero Waste Standard. 
The standard emphasizes refusing unnecessary materials, opting for 
sustainable suppliers, and procuring reusable items. In rethinking 
consumption, sustainable contracting practices for IT equipment are 
prioritized, and efforts extend to refurbishing existing equipment 
to reduce new procurement needs. In early 2023, two waste labs 
in Germany and one virtual session were developed with external 
expert to explain correct waste segregation.
Circularity is embedded into our contracts for office furniture. This 
encompasses the use of recycled material, a repair and refurbish 
option as well as deploying used furniture where this fits with 
the space design. Besides this, there is a process to ensure that 
as much furniture can be re -used when relocating an office. The 
ergonomic chairs we provide for employees working from home 
incorporate recycled material and the supplier that manufactures 
them is moving towards making them fully recyclable at end of 
life. In some countries the equipment will be refurbished and 
re-deployed locally, negating the need to purchase a new chair 
for every future employee.
Our reuse practices involve encouraging employees to reuse items 
and reallocating equipment like laptops and furniture to meet 
changing needs, avoiding unnecessary procurement. Recycling is 
prioritized for materials such as paper, plastics, and glass, ensuring 
compliance with waste management regulations. Recovery efforts 
include partnerships with waste management providers and 
exploring energy recovery from non -reusable waste.
We also continue to engage with employees on the topic of circular 
economy and plastic pollution. Across our Europe Cluster countries, 
eleven countries took part in an initiative in collaboration with NGO 
River Cleanup. In 2023, this involved incentivizing employees to 
complete sustainability awareness training around Green IT with 
an internal challenge across the countries for the highest module 
completion rate, won by Austria. We also had several cleanups in 
Lisbon and in Brussels.Training programs ensure employee compliance and engagement 
on the topic of circular economy and pollution through modules on 
our Sustainability Campus, whilst monitoring tools track progress 
against waste reduction targets. Capgemini strives to foster a culture 
of responsible consumption, moving beyond the traditional three 
R’s (reduce, reuse, recycle) by emphasizing refusing unnecessary 
materials and rethinking consumption patterns.
During World Environment Day, we launched our Zero Hero 
campaign encouraging colleagues to take action to address their 
“corporate clutter”. A fully global initiative with sorting stations 
across our offices in 33 countries, the campaign aimed to promote 
waste reduction and circularity. Employees could bring unwanted 
corporate items to sorting stations for reuse, donation, recycling, 
or disposal. The campaign raised awareness about waste issues, 
educated on circularity, incorporating webinars and a comprehensive 
toolkit for success. There were local actions and social media 
activity, including in:
 —  Belgium  – Non -profit, Solentra, a War Trauma Therapy 
Center, was supported through furniture donations from 
Capgemini’s previous office; 
 —  ukraine  – The office collected and donated clothes to 
support the needs of families impacted by the flooding in 
Kakhovka; 
 —  Australia & new Zealand  – we provided employees with 
keep -cups to eliminate the use of single use coffee cups and 
created a coffee reward system in collaboration with local 
businesses when people use their own keep cups; 
 —  Japan  – The No Paper Cup Challenge was launched during 
the ca mpaign asking employees to bring their own cups and 
bottles to the office to reduce single -use paper cup waste.
These are just a few examples of the diverse strategies that 
contributed to the Zero Hero campaign’s success, from nurturing a 
sustainable culture to integrating sustainability into daily practices.
Our commitment to waste reduction also remains steadfast with a 
series of ongoing initiatives in 2023. We are incorporating organic 
waste practices into additional sites where local availability allows, 
including having our own organic waste converters on site in offices 
in India. To enhance awareness, updated posters now communicate 
waste hierarchies. Furthermore, our commitment extends beyond 
waste minimization, as we actively contribute to social causes by 
donating furniture or IT equipment to NGOs.
We have also worked this year on tackling office waste by taking 
a more digital approach, with CRES America driving advanced 
waste management practices with two groundbreaking initiatives: 
Spare-It and EvoEco.
Spare -it integrates connected waste scales and digitalizes contamination 
assessment for accurate data collection by stream, by floor, and at 
scale for our offices. Spare -it waste intelligence platform promotes 
transparency and engagement through real -time displays. EvoEco’s 
smart bin transforms waste sorting into an interactive experience 
with digital screens showcasing proper segregation. Both initiatives 
collaboratively create a robust waste management ecosystem, 
collecting precise data, educating employees, and advancing 
towards a zero -waste future. These innovations align with CRES 
Americas’ mission to minimize environmental impact and contribute 
to a greener, more conscientious workplace.

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
 environment: managing sustainability challenges
188
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT4Metrics unit 2019 2022 2023 % change 
vs 2019% change 
vs 2022
resources – r eused tons 2 9 272 16,578% 2,900%
resources – recycled tons 1,906 1,225 1,296 -32% 6%
resources – Anaerobic digestion, composting tons 543 141 259 -52% 84%
Resources – Diverted from disposal tons 2,450 1,375 1,827 ‑25% 33%
non hazardous waste incinerated with  
energy recoverytons 238 325 322 35% -1%
non hazardous waste incinerated without  
energy recoverytons 0 0 0   
Non hazardous waste landfilled tons 3,568 481 348 -90% -28%
Non hazardous waste directed to disposal tons 3,807 805 670 ‑82% ‑17%
hazardous waste tons 0 0 0   
Total waste generated tons 6,257 2,180 2,497 ‑60% 15%
Total waste generated – per headcount  
(average total headcount) kgs/headkgs/head 23.4 6.2 7.2 -69% 15%
Scope: Capgemini group.
We follow the GRI categories for waste reporting in the table above.
The overall increase in waste generated in 2023 reflects the 
significant increase in employees using our offices since Covid 
restrictions were no longer in place in 2023.We have expanded the scope of our e -waste reporting which has 
resulted in an increase in recycled and reused emissions for all years.
423  Helping our clients with their sustainability journey 
(policy and achievements in 2023)
[GRI 302 -1]; [GRI 302 -2]; [GRI 302 -3]; [GRI 302 -4]; [GRI 305 -1]; [GRI 305 -2]; [GRI 305 -3]; [GRI 305 -4]; [GRI 305 -5]
[SASB TC-SI-130a.1]
esG policy priority B: Lead to low -carbon economic transition by helping our clients achieve their environmental commitments.
4231  Our Sustainability Accelerator program
As one of the world’s leading business transformation partners, we 
are in the best position not only to reduce our own environmental 
footprint, but also to help other organizations deliver their 
sustainability transition, ensuring maximum positive ESG impacts 
while enhancing their value chains.
In 2020, we publicly committed to help our clients save 10 million tCO2e 
by 2030.
This is the second year running that Mr. Aiman Ezzat has named 
sustainability as one of top 3 annual priorities, again placing 
sustainability at the very heart of our Group’s strategy and 
underlining its importance in all we do.a)  our vision across the Group
In 2021, we launched our sustainability Accelerator  to orchestrate 
our sustainability value proposition and embed sustainability 
across all our business lines, geographies and sectors. Backed 
by our partner ecosystem, this internal body identifies trends to 
accompany our clients on their journey today and support them 
with their future challenges. The Sustainability Accelerator also 
tracks and monitors the sustainability projects we deliver and the 
greenhouse gas emissions we help our clients save with dedicated 
processes and tools that we have developed.
b)  A robust portfolio of offers
We have updated our framework of offers to adapt to the evolving 
market challenges and help our clients at any point of their 
sustainability journey. Our 5 main offers now further embrace the 
full breadth of ESG for our clients:

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
 environment: managing sustainability challenges
189
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI4Commit Act Monitor & report
Sustainability Strategy
& GovernanceSustainable Operations, 
Manufacturing
& Supply ChainESG Management
& ReportingSustainable
ProductsSustainable
Technology   SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORK OF OFFERS   
Sustainability Strategy & Governance
Organizations today are under pressure to deliver on sustainability. 
At the same time, over 60% of executives now say that the business 
case for sustainability is clear. We help our clients consciously 
accelerate sustainability by defining actionable strategies, 
developing measurable commitments, creating comprehensive 
transformation roadmaps, choosing smart investments, identifying 
new business models, and enacting culture change to deliver 
tangible value through proactive governance for all stakeholders 
and the planet at large.
Sustainable Products
Making products that are better for the planet creates value for 
shareholders. According to the Capgemini Research Institute, 73% 
of organizations have seen an increase in revenue growth and 75% 
have seen an increased ability to attract capital through sustainable 
product initiatives. At Capgemini, we create, engineer, and redesign 
products by holistically considering planetary boundaries, product 
life cycles, current and pending regulations, cost constraints, and 
corporate values to delight customers and unlock competitive 
advantage through patents, green energy, digital product passports, 
circularity, and climate tech.
Sustainable 	Operations, 	Manufacturing 	&	Supply	Chain
According to joint research by CDP and Capgemini, Scope 3 emissions 
represent the overwhelming majority (92%) of emissions disclosed 
but only 37% are currently being addressed. While many companies 
have started their journey towards achieving net -zero emissions, 
systemic collaboration across and between value chains is fundamental 
to align and upgrade corporate strategies and industrial policies. 
And it goes beyond just carbon, only 16% of organizations have 
completed an assessment of their supply chain impact on biodiversity. 
This is why we drive our clients’ transparency and resiliency while 
unlocking innovation across the entire value chain by leveraging 
technologies and data to tackle issues including responsible 
procurement, traceability, biodiversity, resource efficiency, and 
waste resulting in increased customer satisfaction and loyalty, 
higher market share, and improved profitability.
Sustainable Technology
From user devices to data centers and networks, the technology 
powering business today has a significantly high carbon footprint, 
and its energy consumption is expected to increase three -fold 
from 2010 to 2025. With the explosion of data & AI in addition to 
technological advances, more and more resources are required 
to power the business. We champion sustainability through both 
Green IT and IT for Green initiatives that reduce the digital and 
technological impact, embrace sustainable technologies, improve 
services and employee experiences, and spark culture change by 
engaging IT and employees alike, all while measuring your progress 
and its impact.ESG Management & Reporting
Our clients face a rapidly evolving landscape of reporting standards 
and regulations including the EU Corporate Sustainability Reporting 
Directive (CSRD). Beyond mandatory reporting, there is increased 
pressure for more transparency. Supplier due diligence is under the 
spotlight while 33% of consumers globally believe organizations and 
brands are communicating false advertising on their sustainability 
initiatives. At Capgemini, we go beyond carbon and mandatory 
reporting to help measure commitments, monitor progress, and 
provide transparency. We securely harness data across companies’ 
entire ecosystems to improve ESG performance and the bottom line.
c)  Continuously upskilling our people
Our Sustainability Campus, launched in June 2022, acts as the virtual 
learning hub to provide our +340 000 employees worldwide with 
continuously enriched resources, based on their role and sector. 
This platform is jointly managed by the Sustainability Accelerator 
and Capgemini University teams. Employees can reinforce their 
knowledge of global sustainability issues and learn more about 
our own corporate commitments and actions, and the impact of 
our sector. It also provides information about our products and 
services, highlights the challenges within specific sectors, and deep 
dives into key topics such as the circular economy or biodiversity, 
as well as a series of role -based and industry learning pathways.
It received a gold award for “Best Advance in Learning in the Flow 
of Work” by Brandon Hall, an organization certifying Human Capital 
Management Excellence Awards around the world. The Campus 
also has benefited from great visibility within Capgemini group, as 
more than 67% of our employees have now completed the Globe 
Awareness Module and 80% have completed the Sustainability 
awareness module. Additionally, 239 of our leaders completed the 
Stanford Strategies for Sustainability course and 20 participants 
completed the Exeter course in 2023.
4232  Our achievements in 2023
In 2023, we amplified our impact by scaling up our organization 
set up in 2022.
In January 2023, Mr. Cyril Garcia was appointed as head of Global 
Sustainability Services and Corporate Responsibility. A member 
of the Group Executive Board since 2018, Mr. Cyril Garcia is now 
responsible for integrating sustainability across Capgemini’s portfolio 
of services in addition to driving the Group’s own sustainability 
agenda and CSR activities.
The focus of the Accelerator evolved to ensure we go to market 
with a robust sustainability services portfolio and ecosystem to 
help our clients accelerate their transition while managing and 
anticipating the impacts of ESG regulation. Two new focal points 
have been added to the Sustainability Accelerator: data (to enrich 
data capabilities across the Group) and climate technologies (to 
foster innovation and build new ecosystems and solutions to help 
our clients accelerate their ESG journey).

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
 environment: managing sustainability challenges
190
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT4a)  Client success stories
Throughout 2023, we accelerated the momentum and delivered 
more than 3,000 deals on sustainability topics for 870 clients.
Examples of 2023 client successes:
Strategy & Governance
 —  We signed a 10 -year agreement to accelerate Eneco’s 
transition towards sustainable energy. We notably helped 
this company cut its scope  1, 2, and 3  CO2 emissions by 
roughly 6 -7 megatons by 2030, accelerating its transition to 
net zero in 2035 and retaining its leadership in renewable 
energy.
 —  With OCAP (Organic Carbon for Assimilation by Plants), we 
developed and implemented the MyOCAP digital ecosystem, 
an innovative platform that enables organizations to 
accurately track, measure, and control their CO2 distribution 
for effective reuse or prevent unnecessary emissions.
 —  We helped a French commercial bank improve gender 
balance by steering the governance of the whole program 
(recruitment of stream le aders, etc.), developing a mentoring 
program for women with dedicated training (inclusive 
leadership, etc.) and organizing talks for women.
Sustainable Products
 —  We collaborated with Hyliko to set up a world -class heavy 
mobility platform that offers hydrogen and trucks as a 
service for freight transportation companies. We took it 
from concept to company to provide freight transportation 
companies with a more sustainable, carbon -negative 
alternative.
 —  We have supported ITER (International Thermonuclear 
Experimental Reactor), a clean and large -scale fusion energy 
project for over a decade to help realize its vision, from 
construction and engineering to project management. We 
have helped provide a blueprint for future energy generation 
across the globe.
 —  We supporte d a French car manufacturer in designing a new 
range of 100% electric city vehicles that are 50% recycled.
Sustainable 	Operations, 	Manufacturing 	&	Supply	Chain
 —  We helped Automotive Cells Company build a gigafactory 
dedicated to electric vehicle battery production. We created 
a best practices repository about gigafactory specific 
processes and operations to quickly replicate the model.
 —  We helped a postal and logistics services company redesign its 
supply chain, creating an intelligent and sustainable network 
that improves the customer and employee experience, and 
strengthened its territorial presence.
 —  We deployed a tool for Siemens Healtheneers to drive 
supply chain efficiency and measure achievements in 
reducing waste, complying with environmental regulations 
and reducing inventory and emissions through optimized 
forward and reverse logi stics.Sustainable Technology
 —  The Office for Zero Emission Vehicles partnered with 
Capgemini to implement a cloud -based web portal that 
provides a single access point and data repository for all 
grant applications.
 —  We developed Eramet‘s “Connected Concessions” 
application, which uses drone imagery to improve vegetation 
inventory and rehabilitate land. We transformed its mining 
operations to limit environmental impact through AI.
 —  W e  c o llaborated with Naturalis, the National Research 
Institute for Biodiversity based in the Netherlands to launch, 
using Amazon Web Services (AWS), the latest edition of the 
Global Data Science Challenge (GDSC) and create a new AI 
model that can identify insects with ~92% accuracy.
ESG Management & Reporting
 —  We supported Breitling in the implementation of the 
Salesforce Net Zero Cloud to automate data processes, 
improve visibility, and reduce the time and errors associated 
with manual work. This enables Breitling to collect carbon 
data at scale throughout its entire value chain and fine -tune 
its measurement accuracy.
 —  As part of an established consortium of scientific and industry 
experts, Capgemini supported the European Space Agency in 
raising the global standard of emissions data quality to help 
build a more sustainable future. ESA’s World Emission portal 
centralizes global data on GHGs and atmospheric pollutants, 
leveraging satellite observations to provide more precise, 
frequently updated information with improved spatial and 
temporal resolution.
 —  We implemented a Financial Services company‘s Climate 
Datastore to meet the Paris Agreement’s net -zero emissions 
targets on  a portfolio level. We reduced its financed 
emissions, increased ESG data monitoring and transitioned 
away from high -emission activities.
b)  Continuous upskilling of our talent
In 2023, we worked collaboratively with +50 internal sustainability 
experts at Capgemini and the University Campus Learning & 
Development team to define the content and design of 26 new 
e-learning pathways and a live game in the Campus. Realized 
upskilling objectives for this year were five -fold:
 —  Integrate Capgemini’s new “Business to Planet” sustainability 
narrative into the Globe Awareness Module – a soon -to-be 
mandatory Capgemini module on the fundamentals of 
sustainability for all employees.
 —  Create awareness -level modules on key sustainability topics 
for all employees such as: Life Cycle Analysis, Biodiversity, 
Circular Economy, Planetary Boundaries, Capgemini Internal 
Environmental Topics.
 —  Develop sustainability upskilling content tailored to roles 
and industry skill specificities. This includes IT technical roles, 
business roles, support functions and sectors.
 —  Increase engagement on the platform by launching a 
live game on Ecodesign Principles to make the learning 
experience more interactive.

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
 environment: managing sustainability challenges
191
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI4 —  Upskill executive leaders from our top Capgemini accounts 
on sustainability by completing Exeter University’s certifying 
training program .
c)  Analyst recognition
Industry analysts continued to recognize Capgemini for sustainability 
services in 2023, naming it as a leader in 15 separate sustainability 
specific reports. Highlights include:
Sustainability Strategy & Governance
“Capgemini shows strengths for customers that are looking to 
develop and implement a wide -sweeping sustainable business 
transformation. With capabilities across all functional groups 
of a business, Capgemini will be able to support clients looking 
for advisory, engineering, energy, data, and digital solutions for 
their sustainability journey.” – IDC MarketScape: Worldwide ESG/
Sustainability Strategy Consulting Services 2023 Vendor Assessment.
Sustainable Technology
“Capgemini’s sustainable IT services encompass strategy and 
employee engagement, aiming to transform culture as well as 
drive sustainability. Capgemini stands out for its ability to design 
and engineer clean tech, securing patents and investing in research 
on sustainability topics to anticipate client needs.” – The Forrester 
Wave™: IT Sustainability Service Providers, Q3 2023.
ESG Management and Reporting
“Capgemini shows its strength in the breadth of its program 
management offerings. From simple carbon calculators and 
accounting services to deep AI-powered data management and 
analytics, Capgemini has a wide range of services built to meet clients 
where they are, regardless of maturity, industry, or materiality.” – 
IDC MarketScape: Worldwide ESG Program Management Services 
2023 -2024 Vendor Assessment.
d)  Market leadership
Participation in global major events to introduce sustainability 
topics including:
 —  ChangeNow: Capgemini participated in this key European 
initiative presenting disruptive solutions to climate and 
biodiversity challenges, organized learning expeditions 
focusing  on sustainable procurement and promoted 
thought leadership on circularity and resource scarcity, while 
communicating for the first time our Business for Planet 
Modeling service to analysts.
 —  NY climate week: As an official partner of the largest annual 
climate event for the second year in a row, Capgemini 
organized an exclusive Capgemini Connect day which 
welcomed 340  participants around key sustainability 
themes, from circularity to energy transition and climate 
technologies. —  World Climate Foundation (WCF) events: Capgemini pursues a 
long -lasting partnership with the World Climate Foundation, 
which is in charge of the World Biodiversity Summit that 
occurred during Climate Week as well as the business side 
event of COP. As the largest C-level B2B convening alongside 
COP, the World Climate Summit facilitated the exchange of 
best practices and innovations across vital sectors crucial to 
decarbonization efforts in the areas of energy, transport, 
buildings, industry, finance and nature.
 —  Hannover Messe: The world’s leading trade fair for industrial 
technology was a key moment for Capgemini to showcase its 
expertise in the Intelligent lndustry.
 —  Vivatech: With a strong spin on Innovation, Sustainability, 
Sports and Tech, we showcased key thought leadership 
content including Conversations for Tomorrow  #7 on Climate 
Tech, and demos such as the Business for Planet Modeling 
offer.
 —  Paris Air Show: Capgemini brought a partners’ vision into 
focus by talking Digital Continuity, connected Aerospace 
and Defense (A&D) and presenting a whole line -up of 
demos including the new c ollaborative platform designed 
in partnership with Amazon Web Services for automating 
the inspection process for aircraft owners, operators and 
maintainers.
Publication	of	29 thought	leadership	reports	and	  
points of view
With five Capgemini Research Institute reports and circa  24 PoVs on 
crucial sustainability topics, Capgemini extended its sustainability 
research throughout 2023, strengthening its expertise in topical 
and sectoral domains.
The yearly report on sustainability business trends, “A world in 
balance 2023”, has notably highlighted that sustainability, both at 
an environmental and social level, is moving up to the corporate 
agenda. Climate technologies constitute a key domain Capgemini 
is delving into through a new dedicated report.
Other points of views and interviews have enriched Capgemini’s 
research this year, exploring namely key industrial stakes in client 
and partner roundtables, as well as societal levers to enable climate 
action in a report co -developed with BLOOM and Dassault-Systèmes. 
All reports and insights are available on our website.

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
social: aligned entrepreneurs with protection & respect for all
192
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT443  Social: aligned entrepreneurs with protection  
& respect for all
Capgemini is a people -oriented business. Together, we tackle the 
challenges of today and tomorrow in a demanding environment, 
working closely with our clients to build the future they want. This 
requires a constant refresh of our collective capabilities and we 
do so by leveraging the expertise, creativity, and commitment of 
all our people. We believe everyone joining Capgemini is a talent 
in the making. Through offering individualized learning paths, 
appropriate guidance, and coaching, as well as fostering a positive 
and healthy work environment, we build an inclusive culture where 
every form of diverse talent thrives.
Capgemini’s purpose acts as a compass to our employees to be 
inspired and engaged in pursuing the common goal of making an 
impact in the world. This is further translated through our new 
brand promise “ Get the future you want ”. This aims to empower our talents to actively engage and shape that future for themselves, 
our clients, our partners and for the planet and society through 
their daily work.
Three ESG priorities are focusing on Social and Societal matters 
to drive value and fuel growth:
 — ESG policy priority C: Relentlessly invest in our talent 
through a unique experience developing tomorrow’s 
skills; 
 — ESG policy priority D: Enhance a diverse, inclusive and 
hybrid work environment; 
 — ESG policy priority E: Support digital inclusion in our 
communities 
431  Own workforce
4311  A global Human Capital Management approach
a)  human resources Governance
We define Human Resources (HR) strategy and drive implementation 
with efficiency through a strong governance:
 —  the CEO, the Group Executive Board and the Group Executive 
Committee collectively steer the people ambition and 
people agenda of the Company and ensure alignment of the 
HR strategy to the overall business strategy of the Company; 
 —  HR governance bodies (HR Board and HR Executive 
Committee) define the strategic agenda of HR, ensure 
consistency across business lines and geographies, and 
follow up on execution. Progresses and outcomes are being 
measured through KPIs and people analytics; 
 —  global strategic priorities as well as specific talent agenda of 
each business entity are being defined and refreshed every 
year.
b)  People Analytics
People Analytics as one of the Expertise Hubs is positioned to 
provide approaches that can enhance the People Experience 
and Business Value. With the aim of bringing harmonization and 
consistency in People -related metrics, the key dashboard ‘People 
Insights’ is embedded into the ways of working for Business and HR 
leaders. These automated solutions are scaled across the Group, 
empowering the wide range of stakeholders to bring Data -driven 
approaches for all key people -related decisions.
With changing Economic context and People expectations, the 
People Analytics expertise hub provides holistic insights on topics 
such as leadership, Talent, Rewards, Well -being, Engagement, 
Labor market conditions, etc., to aid the design of key people 
policies using data.4312  Human capital risks and opportunities
We are convinced that our human capital is a key asset to thrive in 
our Industry. As we navigate in a competitive talent market, with 
economic uncertainties, we aim to attract, retain and develop top 
talents and leaders. Our HR strategy is underpinned by 3 key pillars, 
designed to support Capgemini’s growth ambition:
 —  build organizational resilience through agile skills growth at 
scale; 
 —  develop strong leadership pipelines; 
 —  foster a flexible, diverse, and engaged workforce: provide 
a best -in-class personalized People Experience to foster 
a strong sense of belonging and enhance engagement, 
well -being and productivity. We aim to create a unified 
people experience through the ‘moments that matter’ for 
our people.
To attract and retain the best talent to serve our clients and 
business growth, Capgemini has developed a dynamic and evolving 
skills pipeline, filled internally and externally. Our brand promise  
“Get The Future You Want”  captures the Capgemini experiences 
we offer and plays a key role in increasing our brand attractiveness. 
At Capgemini, we relentlessly invest in our talent development, 
with a commitment to increase learning hours per employee by 
5% annually, thereby keeping up with the fast -changing market 
and dynamic technology trends.
Our commitment to diversity and inclusion is deeply embedded in 
our corporate identity, as we recognize the transformative power 
of a diverse workforce. By fostering an inclusive culture, Capgemini 
aims to harness a wealth of talents, skills, and perspectives, enabling 
proactive adaptation to dynamic client needs and establishing a 
community of forward -thinking entrepreneurs. The comprehensive 
Diversity and Inclusion strategy extends beyond gender parity to 
embrace all aspects of identity, ensuring an open, collaborative, 
and safe environment for individuals to thrive authentically.

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
social: aligned entrepreneurs with protection & respect for all
193
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI4In 2023, Capgemini continued to demonstrate its unwavering 
commitment to workers’ rights, collective bargaining coverage, and 
to fostering a robust social dialogue. We commit to maintaining a 
constructive employee dialog and labor relations as we are convinced 
that employee dialog is a powerful tool to move forward, while 
allowing safe and conflict -free change. Building upon its dedicated 
policies, including the ESG Policy, Anti -corruption Policy, Code of 
Business Ethics, Data Protection Policy, Human Rights Policy, and 
Supplier Standards of Conduct, Capgemini actively manages both 
actual and potential material impacts on value chain workers.
Capgemini’s commitment to employee health, safety, and well -being 
is underpinned by a vigilant approach to mitigating risks across 
various work environments. In fostering a safe, caring, and flexible 
work culture, the Company addresses potential risks related to 
office and remote work, external sites, accidents, emergencies, 
travel safety, and mental health challenges. This commitment 
extends to diverse work settings, high -risk travel destinations, and 
is reinforced by country -specific policies, ensuring adherence to 
ISO 45001 standards globally. Capgemini also proactively addresses 
the multifaceted risks to employee well -being by incorporating 
robust tools and support systems.
4313  Attract and retain employees to serve our 
clients and our business growth (policies, 
actions and main achievements in 2023)
[GRI 2 -7]; [GRI 201 -3]; [GRI 202 -1]; [GRI 202 -2]; [GRI 401 -1];  
[GRI 401 -2]; [GRI 401 -3]; [GRI 404 -2]; [GRI 404 -3]
[SASB TC-IM-330a.1]; [SASB TC-SI-330a.2]
a)  Talent attraction, engagement and rewards programs 
(human resources policies and actions)
The Capgemini brand is a key asset for attracting top talent in the 
market. In 2023, we hired 61,182 people, with a gender balance ratio 
of 40.2% women. Capgemini increasingly gains market recognition 
in terms of diversity and people awards, driven by various inclusion 
and employee experience programs. We have further built out our 
reach on expert capabilities through digital channels, like LinkedIn, 
where we now source a substantial share of talented employees 
at mid and senior levels.
Capgemini is convinced that the experience it offers to its employees 
is the key lever for driving the Group’s attraction and retention, and 
ultimately employee engagement. To foster an inclusive, meaningful, 
and open environment, the Group has defined a global experience 
approach and encourages employees to share their point of view 
to improve it constantly and adapt it to the fast -paced changes in 
employee expectations. These efforts directly support the Group’s 
Inclusion and Talent strategies.
HR supports Capgemini business growth and strategy in four 
major areas:
 —  develop a dynamic evolving skills pipeline; 
 —  zone in on building skills at scale; 
 —  continuously build and strengthen a deep pool of enterprise 
and transformational leaders; 
 —  focus on a flexible, engaged, mobile and high performing 
workforce.1.  develop a dynamic skills pipeline, using both internal 
and external talent pools with a focus on acquiring and 
growing skills in demand
Talent brand & attractiveness
At Capgemini, our brand promise “ Get the future you want ” captures 
the spirit of Capgemini Employee Experiences. Our new talents join 
a thriving company and become part of a diverse global collective 
of free -thinkers, entrepreneurs and industry experts who are all 
driven to use technology to reimagine what is possible. Time and 
again, our clients tell us that it is our people that set us apart from 
the competition. We naturally strive to hire the best talent, but it 
is the opportunities we offer that enable them to flourish in their 
roles and create value for some of the world’s biggest companies.
Our people and their experiences build our “talent brand”, showcase 
us as an employer of choice in the market and make it an attractive 
proposition for top talent to work with us.
Given the range and volume of our recruiting, a multi -channel 
approach is necessary:
 —  the Group defines the content, concept, tools, and rules 
of our attractiveness, selection processes and candidate 
experience; 
 —  recruitment processes and campaigns are approved by the 
Operational Units and comply with Group standards; and
 —  the operational recruitment teams define and operate the 
multi -channel approach to attract and select the best talent.
Capgemini has fair and integrated processes in place to ensure 
we identify, promote, expose, and develop our people for greater 
opportunities. We consistently encourage our recruiters to be 
genuine and their own self while having conversations with our 
future hires. This way, we are able to hire people with compatible 
values as the organization helps them have a strong sense of 
association with Capgemini.
We put a particular focus on welcoming and integrating into our 
company the large share of young professionals who join us every 
year. From the very start of their careers, we set expectations for 
dynamic growth, a diverse and safe environment with quarterly 
promotion opportunities based on their project contributions 
and the speed at which they acquire relevant skills. The success 
of our business strategy directly depends on our ability to provide 
and offer the working environment and conditions in which our 
employees can apply their professional skills, while enabling them 
to seize personal growth opportunities.
We are constantly evolving the Capgemini people experience to 
meet the demands of talent today, from building on our hybrid 
working policy to give employees the freedom to work from 
abroad for up to 45 calendar days in a 12 -month rolling period, to 
continuing to build out our leading learning offer.
Crafting a Compelling e mployee Promise
In our pursuit to solidify Capgemini’s talent brand and strengthen 
our talent acquisition efforts, we refreshed our employer value 
proposition this year. For this framework to resonate effectively, 
it must not only attract potential candidates but also resonate 
authentically with our employees and align closely with our 
management’s vision.
This refreshed value proposition relies on three fundamental 
pillars. Firstly, it revolves around empowerment, recognizing the 
desires of today’s workforce for flexibility, growth opportunities, 
and levels of responsibility. Secondly, it embodies our culture, 
drawing inspiration from our core values of Team Spirit and Fun, 
addressing pivotal societal aspects like diversity and inclusion. 
Lastly, it is designed to ignite the workforce’s passion by showcasing 
individual contributions within projects and collective impacts on 
society and the planet.

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
social: aligned entrepreneurs with protection & respect for all
194
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT4This global framework has steered our talent outreach initiatives, 
enhancing Capgemini’s visibility and attractiveness. These foundational 
concepts were seamlessly integrated into our global talent campaign 
“Rewrite your future ” and are prominently featured on our online 
presences. Based on concrete proof points coming directly from 
the feedback of our employees, this framework equips our talent 
acquisition stakeholders with the tools to effectively convey the 
appeal of joining Capgemini.
Furthermore, our commitment to being an attractive employer 
has been underscored by our presence once again this year in 
Universum’s global Top 50 most attractive employers for IT students. 
This recognition signifies Capgemini’s ongoing journey toward 
becoming increasingly appealing to both internal and external talent.
Committed to a best -in-class Candidate e xperience
Continuing our active presence across online and offline channels 
remains integral to our strategy in captivating talent to join Capgemini. 
As part of our commitment to offering a tailored journey, in 2023 
we completed the relaunch of our global, and 35 local, career 
websites aiming to cater to specific nuances, providing visitors with 
comprehensive insights into the diverse array of roles available 
at Capgemini. These platforms serve as gateways to engage with 
individuals exploring career possibilities within our company while 
showcasing our professions and better guide them through the 
application process with insights into the recruitment journey and 
advice for interview success. These efforts show our dedication to 
becoming more candidate -friendly and informative at every stage.
Furthermore, our ongoing journey involves harmonizing tools 
and processes to ensure a consistent candidate experience for 
everyone interested in a career at Capgemini. This year’s milestone 
saw the implementation of our new application tracking system 
across seven countries. This unified tool is a crucial step towards 
delivering a consistent and qualitative experience to all applicants 
within the group by 2025. It not only streamlines maintenance but 
also fosters international collaboration and facilitates the upskilling 
of our teams, underscoring our commitment to enhancing our 
workforce’s capabilities.
Leveraging s trategic Partnerships for Talent Acquisition
Capgemini’s strategic partnerships with the Nobel Prize or as 
sponsors of major sporting events like the Rugby World Cup, the 
Ryder Cup or Peugeot Sport have emerged as pivotal pathways for 
talent acquisition. These partnerships have facilitated a spectrum 
of engaging events across campuses, offices, and even in the 
Metaverse, serving as compelling platforms to capture candidates’ 
attention and advocate for ambitious projects. For example, in 
France, host country of the Rugby World Cup, Capgemini organized 
job dating sessions directly within World Cup stadiums, amplifying 
our outreach and engagement with prospective candidates.
These partnerships have also helped elevate our global recruitment 
campaigns, allowing us to spotlight not just men’s rugby but also 
our robust commitment to promoting women’s rugby, emphasizing 
our dedication to diversity and inclusion.
Beyond external recruitment initiatives, we have fostered employee 
engagement and nurtured team spirit through internally hosted 
events like our Rugby World Cup and our golf competitions. These 
internal initiatives emphasize our vibrant workplace culture and 
strengthen team spirit among Capgemini employees. Our partnership 
with the Nobel Prize facilitated a remarkable opportunity for 
three young Capgemini employees who engaged in an online 
discussion with Mr. Ben Feringa, the 2016 winner of the Nobel 
Prize in Chemistry. These initiatives underscore our commitment 
to fostering multifaceted engagements and nurturing the interests 
and aspirations of our talent.Digital	onboarding	–	first	experience	at	Capgemini	
delivered digitally
In 2023, Capgemini moved strides to improve its onboarding 
experience for new employees – starting as soon as the new joiner 
has signed their contract – with an enhanced digital experience, 
virtual networking event, and tailored NEXT learning offer.
Digital onboarding experiences are now offered to all employees 
joining Capgemini, regardless of experience, role, or grade:
 —  after signing their employment contract, preboarders are 
given access to a limited digital learning platform, UpNEXT, 
to access onboarding materials and mandatory training. To 
date, almost 9,000  people have accessed UpNEXT since its 
launch in July 2023; 
 —  from their first day, new employees are invited on a digital 
journey of learning and discovery to support them through 
their first nine months of employment. All employees can 
access the GetOnboard plan in NEXT, offering guided digital 
learning with gamified assets, videos, buddy programs and 
e-learning modules. We have set up a digital learning plan 
that delivers relevant training modules to deepen the New 
Joiner’s understanding of our company’s values, culture, and 
strategic objectives. We encourage the creation of circles of 
confidence through a workshop called “ Green Dot Moments ” 
to strengthen the peer -to-peer experience; 
 —  employees are also invited to attend a RISE global digital 
onboarding event. These monthly events are hosted by 
internal leaders to present information on Capgemini, 
increase awareness of our culture and values, and encourage 
people to continue their onboarding learning journey. In 
2023, almost 20,000 new employees attended a global RISE 
event with an average rating of 9 out of 10; 
 —  entry Interviews, called “ Getting Started to Succeed 
Conversations ” are held between the New Joiner and their 
Manager, with the objective of aligning working methods 
and requirements from the beginning of the collaboration; 
 —  industry knowledge has been strengthened during the 
Onboarding phase to ensure that all Joiners can speak the 
language of our Clients.
The onboarding journey is completed after nine months and a 
celebration game will be launched in early 2024.
2.  Zone in on building skills at scale
Relentlessly	invest	in	our	talent,	developing	tomorrow’s	
skills
At Capgemini, it is essential to empower our people to learn and 
grow every day to be future ready, and to provide the best added 
value to our clients. We strive to foster an environment that enables 
our people to access the right learning, in the right way, and at the 
right time, with a holistic and people -centric learning experience. 
We want to build a company of “ learn‑it‑alls, ” turning potential 
into business value and ensuring our employees’ sustainability 
and long -term employability as their careers progress throughout 
Capgemini and beyond.

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
social: aligned entrepreneurs with protection & respect for all
195
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI4To respond to a fast -changing market, dynamic technology trends, 
and the increasingly agile expectations of our clients and people, 
every Capgemini employee – from new graduate hires to senior 
leadership – can expect a unique and high standard of learning 
offers, tools, and support.
Our ESG commitment is to increase the learning hours of every 
employee by 5% year -on-year, from 45.7 average learning hours 
per participant in 2021 to 71.0 Average Completed Learning Hours 
(ACLH) by 2030 – demonstrating our commitment to grow our 
talent and recognize learning as a value creator and continually 
investing in development to support career growth.
Understanding that Learning is a key talent attractor and 
retainer for our organization, our latest learning Pulse score (as 
of December 23) of 8.1 (out of 10) demonstrates our employees’ 
appreciation for our Learning and Development  offers and the value 
that they bring to our workforce. Even more so, by analyzing our 
latest Pulse data, we can directly correlate the impact of learning 
on team engagement and retention, as well as performance and 
promotion, demonstrating the value that learning provides to our 
employees, business, and clients:
 —  top Talent participants increased performance ratings in the 
year following the completion of their program versus  their 
peers; 
 —  teams with a manager who has a Connected Manager 
certification have 5% lower attrition; 
 —  managers with a Connected Manager certification are 
more likely to be promoted than their peers who have not 
completed the program.
Integrate workforce planning and skills development
Our mid -term, tactical workforce planning enables us to proactively 
anticipate market developments and their impact on our resourcing 
requirements.
Our global staffing operating model and tool are designed to 
harness business demand, skills, people data and project mobility 
choices to map the pool of relevant talent profiles against demand. 
This is further leveraged by our workforce planners and resource 
managers to ensure we assign our talent to the right demands to 
enable top -quality talent delivery and development.
Our tool offers the opportunity for employees to express their 
interest in selective projects to pursue their career, rather than 
having a resource assigned directly. Any unfulfilled demand is 
flagged to the external market in line with our core staffing principle 
to “look internally first before going to the market”.
Propose an outstanding digital learning platform
neXT helps drive our global ESG commitment, making learning 
accessible to all our employees with a unique platform offering 
of digital learning content. Offers are either curated internally 
to put learning in the context of our Capgemini -specific roles 
and needs, or with our world -class knowledge partners such as 
Harvard Business, Coursera, Pluralsight, Udemy among others, 
plus our technology partners including Microsoft, AWS, Google 
and more. In 2023, 96% of the Capgemini workforce used NEXT, 
with the majority (92%) of our total headcount regularly engaging 
in digital learning.
NEXT also caters to changing business and employee priorities 
as we develop learning programs at speed and scale to reflect 
the latest market and client demands. Using NEXT, the internal 
development team were able to produce a new Generative AI 
Campus – hosted on NEXT – in just ten weeks.Yet, our learning experiences do not end with NEXT as we also 
offer hybrid programs, face -to-face experiences and events, 
peer -to-peer learning with our GARI platform, as well as coaching 
and mentoring opportunities, and learning assessments and labs. 
From the in -the-flow -of-work digital learning to our certification 
preparations and assessments that recognize the experience and 
expertise of our people, not to mention our professional community 
networking opportunities and events, the diversity of our offers 
brings a richness of experiences to our employees to offer the 
right learning at the right time that is delivered in the right way.
So much so, our offers have been recognized by the Brandon Hall 
Group, receiving 26 Excellence Awards in 2023 across our learning 
offers globally, including a Gold Award for Best Learning Team, 
which reflects the commitment to driving impact and value in our 
learning offers across the Group.
Tailor Learning and Development  to our employee and 
business needs
Alongside our learning -for-all promise, Capgemini also tailors all 
Learning and Development  across five skills dimensions that we 
expect all our employees to develop: Personal Effectiveness , 
Leadership, Business & Methods , Technical , and Industry . Our 
five skills dimensions ensure a well -rounded workforce enabling our 
employees to optimize their personal performance and enhance 
client value, drive delivery excellence anticipating client agendas, 
foster growth and innovation, and be future ready.
Personal Effectiveness
Throughout a Capgemini employee’s career, we offer learning 
programs to support our employees in their day -to-day job. From 
onboarding as a new joiner through to our foundational training 
on ethics and values, diversity and inclusion, sustainability, data 
protection, cybersecurity, and more, our Personal Effectiveness 
learning programs provide an understanding of how we operate 
in Capgemini, offering everything our employees need to know 
to be safe and successful in their roles.
2023 saw the redesign of the Group Compliance Modules, providing 
employees with gamified scenarios to develop the skills they need 
to meet Group compliance regulations. From May 2023, four new 
compliance modules were launched including Cybersecurity, Intellectual 
Property, Competition Laws, and Group Anti-Corruption. The fifth 
module, Data Protection, will be launched in 2024. With this suite 
of five compliance modules, the goal is to empower all employees 
to have the confidence to take control and be accountable in their 
work, ensuring they can operate safely, ethically, and successfully 
for and on behalf of Capgemini.
We also continued to drive the Group Sustainability Campus, providing 
employees with the skills they need to meet the challenges of climate 
change. After completing a basic awareness module with content 
from recognized external experts on environmental concerns, 
employees can learn more about Capgemini’s commitments, 
actions, and approach when working with clients. The goal is to 
empower all employees to increase their impact throughout their 
projects and client interactions. In 2023, 80.3% of the Group’s 
employees had completed the Sustainability awareness module 
within the Campus.

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
social: aligned entrepreneurs with protection & respect for all
196
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT4Leadership
As emerging technology and new business models are transforming 
the way the world works, employees expect greater flexibility in 
their work, and society is demanding that business steps up to 
play a more active role in solving social greatest problems, from 
climate change to social inclusion. To build the leaders we need 
now and in the future, we enable all our employees to grow in line 
with our leadership Vision (more information on our leadership 
Vision is included later in this Section).
During 2023, we worked to further democratize leadership 
development across the organization based on our leadership Vision 
and the belief that leadership is for everyone, not only formal leaders 
and executives. This means all employees – irrespective of grade, 
experience, or role – are invited and encouraged to understand 
the leadership Vision and embody it in their daily interactions. By 
doing this, the leadership Vision constitutes a growth opportunity 
for all employees. This year we :
 —  introduced the leadership Vision to potential new hires, 
onboarders and existing employees, including an overview 
of the leadership development offers employees can access 
throughout their Capgemini careers; 
 —  aligned the leadership Vision to our performance 
management approach to reinforce the connection between 
leadership and performance with learning resources for all 
employees, people managers, and the wider HR community; 
 —  adopted the leadership Vision into our formal development 
offers such as “C onnected Manager” (reaching 30% of the 
management -level community), RISE Onboarding events, 
and the VP360 executive development program.
For Managers and d irectors:  our “ Connected Manager” program 
offers a flexible learning format to support Managers in building 
trusted, engaging, and supportive relationships with their teams 
using the leadership Vision, while equipping them with practical 
management tools and best -in-class learning from Harvard Business 
Publishing. Here, we aim to enable managers to step into their role 
with confidence and the ability to inspire and grow their teams. 
More than 35K Managers have completed the program since its 
launch and, in 2023, the program won three Brandon Hall awards 
recognizing its business benefit to Capgemini, and establishing its 
position in the industry as a world -class talent development offer.
Capgemini’s Top Talent programs are designed to accelerate and 
strengthen Managers and Directors in their leadership skill set. 
Three Talent strengthening programs are offered to build holistic 
leadership capabilities: Grow & Inspire, LEAD, and Pacesetters, while 
another two are offered to provide participants with transformative 
experiences to become change champions for Capgemini and 
boost their career path in the Group: Connect & Drive and Game 
Changers. Offered to the Group’s top 6% of Managers and Directors, 
the Top Talent programs are a hybrid offer, with a mix of digital 
and face -to-face learning over several months.
In addition to this, Managers and Directors are further supported 
by leadership Masterclasses, which are tailored to employee grades 
and provided in a virtual workshop format.For v ice Presidents:  during 2023, we continued to embed our 
leadership Vision among our Vice President (VP) population, 
engaging them in an executive feedback and coaching development 
program, based on a 360° feedback process, aiming to enable 
significant change in our Capgemini senior leadership and build 
the foundations of a strong feedback and development culture. 
Our program for Executive Vice President is also being recognized 
externally, winning a Gold Brandon Hall Group Excellence Award 
for Best Advance in Executive Development.
Following the successful implementation of the VP program and 
to further democratize leadership development in the Group, the 
“GetAhead ” Success Factors module aims to make the 360° process 
available to all employees, with the first deployment to 7 countries 
completed in 2023.
Alongside the VP360 program, we continue to develop our Vice 
Presidents to maximize their ability, help them to understand our 
Group priorities, become better talent magnets, and learn how to 
bring value and innovation to our clients through the principle of 
“One Capgemini”. Hence:
 —  our Onboarding New Executives (ONE) program ran 
four  cohorts in 2023 to over 230  participants scoring an 
average of 4.3 out of 5; 
 —  the new Executive RISE event was piloted in Q4, with the 
aim of aligning Capgemini priorities with an Industry lens to 
our newly recruited executives and was delivered to almost 
150 people at the first session alone; and
 —  our VP leadership Series offered an expanded choice of 
themes for our senior leaders in 2023, encompassing six 
additional topics relevant to leadership development in the 
Group.
Business & Methods
We have truly global communities that transcend all business units 
and geographies, and we also have specific tools and methods to 
enable our people to deliver at their best for our clients.
Professional Communities:  in 2022, Professional Communities were 
developed to foster a sense of belonging in our employees, provide 
a network of support, and accelerate their professional growth, 
while continuing to successfully deliver on our Group strategy. 
Our Business & Methods learning offers tailored online support, 
peer -to-peer learning, and community events to each Professional 
Community. Every employee in the Capgemini group belongs to a 
Professional Community. To support them in their career growth, 
Capgemini provides role -based learning experiences to help all 
employees develop the skills they need to deliver against our talent 
strategy, industry expertise, and corporate strategic framework.
We also offer more in -depth learning and development offers 
including accreditations and certifications – important assets to 
recognize the expertise and development of our people in their 
professional communities. One example is in our Architects and 
Engagement Manager communities, where we offer a world -class 
internal certification program from a Level 0 Aspiring through 
to a Level 4 Master. These global certification programs enable 
better staffing of complex engagements with the appropriate 
level of expertise and represents our commitment to elevating 
our excellence standards and practices across the Group.

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
social: aligned entrepreneurs with protection & respect for all
197
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI4developing experts with focused learning programs:  to further 
support the development of our more client -facing roles, we also 
offer development programs for our Delivery Excellence and Client 
Executive communities: named Advance and Elevate respectively. 
These competency -based programs aim to develop core capabilities 
and business acumen for employees, enabling them to become 
highly successful in their respective roles.
Both piloted in 2022, and launched formally in 2023, these programs 
have already been noted as best -in-class offers in Capgemini 
and the industry alike. Elevate also won five Brandon Hall Group 
Excellence Awards in 2023, including Gold for Best Sales leadership 
Development Program, and Gold for Best Program for Upskilling 
Employees.
Advance saw attendees from 19 countries coming together in 
one cohort to develop their skills. The program also won four 
Brandon Hall Group Excellence Awards including Gold for Best 
use of Blended Learning.
Technical
Technology is at the heart of everything we do at Capgemini, so 
it is only natural that we offer technical skills development for all. 
Whether you are an Engagement Manager or an Account Executive 
working with a client, or an Architect or Software Engineer looking 
for the latest developments in your expert arena, our learning 
solutions provide everything our employees need to know when 
it comes to technology in our industry.
Technology Portfolio Offers:  Our Technology Campuses – Cloud, 
Data & AI, and Generative AI – provide access to the skills our talent 
need to leverage when it comes to our portfolio offers. These 
campuses build top -line understanding, awareness, and confidence 
to talk about these subjects with clients effectively, and provide 
depth of technical expertise in specific topics.
Alongside our internal development offers, Capgemini is also 
proud to partner with world -leading technology companies. We 
offer technical training on our Alliance Partners, including but not 
limited to, Microsoft, Microsoft Azure, AWS, Google, Azure, SAP, 
IBM, Oracle, Adobe, from basic training to official certifications 
via our NEXT platform.
In 2023 alone, just under 171,000 participants (50% of the 
Group) accessed learning via one of our campuses, with around 
70,000 employees completing one or more Alliance Partner 
certifications, demonstrating how learning is supporting Capgemini’s 
growth agenda in these strategic areas.
upskilling employees on transformational IT:  Our Generative 
AI Campus was launched in 2023 to help our employees increase 
their awareness, experience and skills in the biggest transformative 
topic our world has seen in decades. Here, learners are introduced 
to the topic of Generative AI, given the opportunity to understand 
our guiding principles, ethics and guidelines, and upskill in key 
development areas such as prompt engineering. The Campus 
offers both internal and external training resources with the 
opportunity to register for and replay key webinars, support 
learners in generative AI upskilling and complete technology 
partner accreditations to support group training ambitions. Since 
its launch in Q4 2023, almost 52,000 employees have visited the 
campus, contributing to just under 1 million learning hours, with 
around 18,000 employees completing a Generative AI partner 
training course (with Microsoft, Google or AWS).
Building experts in priority technology topics:  The Capgemini 
Cloud Campus  offers the latest in Cloud learning resources, with 
mentoring and collaboration opportunities for both beginners and 
experts. Launched in 2020, the Campus is continually refreshed with 
new learning pathways, thought leadership webinars, and technology partner events to support our employees to grow and deliver for our 
clients in this field. In 2023, close to 41,000 participants visited the 
Cloud Campus for their development with a significant proportion 
taking partner training. The Campus also won a Gold Brandon Hall 
Excellence Award for Best Learning Program Supporting a Change 
Transformation Business Strategy.
Our data & AI Campus  is one of Capgemini’s leading technology 
learning programs offering awareness of data and artificial 
intelligence, to reinforce understanding in a topic, or prepare for 
expert certifications. The Campus provides essential knowledge 
and a chance to acquire new competencies and certified skills 
to enable employees to learn new work strategies and boost 
productivity in Data and AI-related projects. In 2023 alone, around 
70,000 employees trained in the Data & AI Campus, with employees 
also choosing to develop with partner training. The Campus also 
won a Silver Brandon Hall Excellence Award for Best Unique or 
Innovative Learning and Development  Program.
Following the acquisition of Altran in 2019, the Group became the 
undisputed leader in engineering, ready to embrace all types of 
technologies. The Engineering Academy launched in 2023, to support 
our engineers with role -relevant upskilling across ten different role 
families. Furthermore, role -based upskilling pathways for engineers 
have been incorporated into our other priority campuses, including 
Sustainability, Generative AI, Cloud, and Industry.
Industry
Almost every industry still holds significant opportunity to leverage 
their digital potential and collective expertise will bring significant 
value in guiding the transition to the digital economy. Capgemini’s 
Industry learning offer is aimed at helping our people better 
understand and guide the industries in which we operate: their 
value chain, current business challenges, where they are heading, 
and how we can support their overall business and transformation 
agenda.
Our NEXT digital learning offer, the Industry Campus provides 
easily accessible learning to all Group employees, giving access to 
the latest industry -specific knowledge and content, building depth 
of expertise, and enabling our employees to better engage with 
clients and create custom solutions based on informed decisions. 
Our Industry learning is pivotal for employees to drive more success 
in their roles and help Capgemini to create even more value for 
our clients. As such, internal Industry certifications were designed 
and launched for all 10 priority industries in 2023, with the aim of 
having 125,000 employees industry certified by 2027.
Opening up our learning ecosystem
In Capgemini, learning is for all. As such, we want to extend our 
learning ecosystem beyond our internal workforce to include 
people who have committed to join us (preboarders) and those 
who work with us on a regular basis (clients).
We are working on a solution to bring learning Academies to our 
clients using an extended enterprise platform in 2024 that will 
allow us to seamlessly extend these to our network and ecosystem 
and learn with our clients.
We launched our global pre -boarding experience in July 2023, 
giving all preboarders access to a tailored digital learning platform, 
UpNEXT, to begin their onboarding journey and accelerate the 
cultural immersion into the Group.
3.  Performance management, talent retention and 
promotion
For the past few years, the Group has focused on providing a highly 
engaging “People Experience” structured using a holistic framework 
covering the candidate and employee experience end -to-end.

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
social: aligned entrepreneurs with protection & respect for all
198
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT4The “ Promote first, Hire second ” principle ensures internal candidates 
displaying development potential are given priority over external 
candidates, promoting the belief we have in our Talent regarding 
their career development and new position openings. Publishing 
vacancies and internal job opportunities (if applicable) and 
reviewing various candidates with the Human Resources teams 
for each Strategic Business Unit/Global Business Line are standard 
requirements before turning to external recruitment.
Performance Management
The value Capgemini brings to our clients depends on the impact 
we make as teams delivering against their unique needs and 
opportunities.
In 2023, we re -engineered our performance management approach 
for all employees. This shift in the performance management 
approach is enabled by SAP’s SuccessFactors, bringing employees 
the experience and ease -of-use they expect from the Group. 96% 
of our employees are now using the new approach. Employees 
express a highly positive experience on the clarity of their Goals 
with an engagement score of 8.6 (out of 10).
By linking skills development and progress to business impact, 
our approach empowers our employees to focus on how they can 
accelerate their future performance and increase their impact on 
business through four key changes:
 —  ongoing priority alignment to reflect market requirements: 
priorities are agile, co -created between the employee and 
the manager. The progress is monitored through the year 
and priorities can be updated. 90% of our employees have 
priorities and measurable goals in our new performance 
management tool; 
 —  continuous feedback to support a culture of continuous 
improvement and growth; 
 —  agile performance management with regular check -ins 
between the employee and the manager and Quarterly 
People Reviews focusing on the whole person to provide a 
holistic view; 
 —  focus on skills in the quarterly conversations with the 
manager and in the year -end assessment to trigger the right 
behaviors in terms of development.
The first year of our new performance management approach 
has seen high adoption rates and positive feedback. 85% of our 
employees were assessed in 2023. Those who joined in Q4 have 
not yet been assessed as they have been part of the Company 
for a shorter time but will be part of the next Quarterly People 
Reviews in Q1 2024.
The focus for 2024 will be to embed further the broader ‘mindset’ 
changes of agile targets, immediate feedback and skills – including 
those that support our leadership Vision. Alongside improved role 
definition and development for our People Managers, this next 
stage of our approach will address the challenges of maintaining 
our top performance levels, remaining the best place to develop a 
career and delivering the most positive impact on our employees, 
candidates, clients, partners and suppliers.Capgemini Leadership Vision
As part of the common learning skills framework, Capgemini offers 
leadership development to all employees in our business via our 
“Leadership Vision.” Launched in February 2022, the Leadership 
Vision was created in collaboration with leaders across our entire 
business, to support the strategic ambition of the Company and 
based on the latest forward -looking research.
The leadership Vision is underpinned by the Capgemini purpose 
“unleashing human energy through technology for an inclusive 
and sustainable future, ” supported by the values which are well  
established in our business DNA. By tying this together with the 
Capgemini promise to “ Get The Future You Want ,” embedding the 
leadership Vision throughout the organization is essential both 
strategically and operationally, while recognizing the key attributes, 
mindset, behaviors, and skills that our leaders need.
Therefore, bringing the Leadership Vision to life by growing the 
leadership capabilities at all levels of an employee’s career is at the 
heart of our approach to leadership development in Capgemini.
The Leadership Vision encapsulates the essence of our future 
leadership success and is based on a clear set of five leadership 
dimensions:
 —  performance Drivers; 
 —  aligned Entrepreneurs; 
 —  client Value Creators; 
 —  talent Magnets; 
 —  future Shapers.
The leadership Vision is fully integrated across all levels in Capgemini 
– specifically in our Learning and Development  offers – but is actively 
applied at the Vice-President (VP) level, with drivers and behavioral 
expectations for leadership being translated into both promotion 
and recruitment processes.
Vice ‑President Strategic Talent Review (STR)  
– Succession and mobility
Capgemini runs a formal Strategic Talent Review (STR) of its VP 
and Director population at Business Unit, function and country 
levels as well as at Group level, to identify, develop, and make 
visible a strong and diverse pipeline of leaders to ensure business 
continuity and organizational agility to meet future demands. In 
these talent discussions we:
 —  identify options and preparation steps for succession plans 
and mobility moves; and
 —  drive leadership development.
Formal leadership roundtables at various moments in the year 
ensure that the top talent strategies and actions adopted are 
followed through.
Next‑in‑line Executive leadership Positions
The Group Executive Board (GEB) has created a next- in-line set of 
Executive leadership Positions with a twofold objective:
 —  build a high -performance Group leadership culture, 
wherein Executive leadership Position contributions and 
accountability are not confined to their respective Business 
Units/functions, but can extend to the entire Capgemini 
group; and
 —  create a global leadership capital to realize the Group 
strategy by nurturing leadership potential, facilitating global 
mobility and succession planning.

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
social: aligned entrepreneurs with protection & respect for all
199
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI4Based on the business and market context and conditions, the 
Group Executive Board has defined strategic criteria to identify 
these Group positions. These criteria are reviewed every year to 
adjust to both the present and the future. One of the key objectives 
is to rotate holders of these positions every three -five years. Role 
mobility remains instrumental in the continuous growth of our 
current and future leaders as it develops broad experience and a 
ONE Capgemini mindset.
In order to build a strong and diverse pipeline of leaders for the 
future, we also focus on identifying and developing the next 
generation of leaders, who could become successors to the 
Executive leadership Positions. This focus is starting to increase 
the depth of our succession plans and is also an important source 
of future women executive leaders. To further secure our female 
executive pipeline, we introduced a 2 -year women’s sponsorship 
program, EMPOWHER, for high potential grade F women. The 
selected women leaders are matched with sponsors from senior 
leaders to help them get the exposure and experience required 
to develop towards executive positions.
We also launched a new executive development program in 2022 
(Nexus) for our most promising leaders from the Executive leadership 
and succession pools. The main objective of this program is to 
support the participants grow as enterprise leaders by:
 —  increasing their strategic scope of influence, maximizing 
impact externally and across the Company; 
 —  deepening relationships and impact at Board level with 
clients and in the Group; 
 —  pushing value creation and innovation with our clients, 
people and partners; 
 —  leading at scale with a specific focus on growing and 
nurturing talent.
The program is anchored in the leadership vision and delivered in 
collaboration with Harvard Business School. It has strong sponsorship 
and involvement from the Group Executive Board.
4.  Talent engagement, reward, compensation and  
social protection
People Experience Framework
Capgemini aligns across the Group on employee experience through 
a global and common framework including external components 
relevant to the experience of candidates. It is based on ten areas 
(brand awareness, effective & engaging onboarding, performance 
& success, etc.) that are holistic cross -functional levers impacting 
the experience and enabling the Group to:
 —  align flexibly ambitions and objectives; 
 —  link to key transformation programs; and
 —  measure the impact of these programs on employee 
engagement.
The main metrics are Glassdoor (mainly for the external component) 
and Pulse (for the internal component). A formal mapping of 
the six Glassdoor drivers (Culture & values; Work Life Balance; 
Senior Management; Compensation & Benefits; Growth – Career 
Path; Diversity & Inclusion) to the equivalent Pulse drivers helps 
strengthen the alignment of actions and provides support for a 
more authentic Employer Value Proposal.Employee listening and engagement
Pulse: Continuous employee listening platform
To better understand the expectations of our employees, the 
digital “ Pulse ” platform – where more than 1 40,000 employees 
share their thoughts every month – captures employee feedback 
anonymously and enables line managers to directly see how their 
teams perceive their work and corporate experience. It is based on 
a global engagement model. Pulse thereby enables empowerment 
of all levels of the organization, by providing relevant insights to 
identify priorities and adapt our Management and Human Resources 
strategies, policies, and practices. This allows us to act fast and, at 
all levels of the organization, to develop a tailor -made employee 
experience in line with employees’ expectations. In addition to 
the engagement model, employees receive questions on health 
& well -being, ethics & values, intent to stay and specific moments 
that matter related to the employee life cycle. In 2023, the Pulse 
platform also evolved into supporting diversity and inclusion, 
enabling global and local D&I teams to inform their strategies 
with people listening data. In addition, new Onboarding questions 
were added, specifically targeted to joiners, empowering global 
and local HR teams to identify gaps and make improvements to 
the onboarding process.
employee engagement s core
Fully deployed since 2019, the overall Employee Engagement 
score, measured on a scale of 0 to 10, and the eNPS (employee 
Net Promoter Score), measured on a scale of -100 to +100, are key 
indicators tracked by leadership across the Group.
Talent	reward,	compensation 	and	social	protection
Compensation and social protection
The Group compensation philosophy is based on shared principles, 
applied at business and country level and tailored to local job market 
conditions and regulations under a global governance structure. 
This philosophy provides a foundation for us to make consistent 
people decisions, which are aligned to our business strategy, 
corporate and ESG goals and objectives, and aims to reward the 
appropriate skills, experience and behaviors driving sustainable 
results and engaging our employees.
Capgemini group is committed to providing equitable and competitive 
total reward opportunities. Hence, our philosophy aims to:
 —  attract, retain and motivate our talent and skills; 
 —  reward individual and collective performance with a 
remuneration model that is motivating yet flexible, 
incentivizing high performance in an ethical environment; 
 —  communicate clearly in alignment with Group’s strategic 
objectives.
The Capgemini Rewards and Compensation mission statement is 
structured around four pillars, designed to achieve the objectives 
highlighted above:
 —  market and competitive rewards, to attract and retain the 
skills we need now and for the future, through innovative 
and globally benchmarked cash and benefits programs, to 
remain on top of market practices; 
 —  equitable and affordable impact, to enable managers to 
spend approved compensation budgets in an optimized way 
through first class analytics, advice, and guidance; 
 —  optimized and efficient processes to drive alignment, favor 
mobility and improve employee experience;

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
social: aligned entrepreneurs with protection & respect for all
200
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT4 —  employee engagement, by enabling employees to 
understand and value their full reward structure through 
clear and impactful communications that illustrate our 
reward value proposition.
These principles are regularly reviewed to ensure consistency with 
global and local market trends and are deployed and managed 
locally to ensure compliance with local regulations. The total 
reward package for a given employee includes a fixed salary, a 
variable portion for eligible employees based on individual and 
company performance and a set of benefits which are not all cash 
related but are aligned to competitive market practices in terms of:
 —  healthcare (sickness and medical care); 
 —  unemployment coverage; 
 —  wellness benefits (giving birth or raising a child); 
 —  life and disability coverage, and
 —  retirement, among others.
Where local rules permit, employees can select the components of 
their remuneration package from a predefined package (Flexible 
Compensation Schemes). This provides employees with additional 
flexibility, enabling them to reconcile their financial and personal 
situations in the best possible way. Profit -sharing is available to 
employees pursuant to the local regulations applicable in the country.
To ensure market alignment, the Group has also implemented a 
strong cross function governance, supported by a global partner 
and covering all Group countries, to monitor, optimize, develop and 
improve employee benefit coverage for our employees.
Vice-President compensation schemes are designed, reviewed, and 
approved at Group level for both fixed and variable components 
on a yearly basis following best market practices. For employees 
eligible to variable compensation schemes the design and principles 
are built within a global framework to promote mobility and 
ensure consistency and such schemes are regularly reviewed and 
benchmarked against market practices.
Changes in compensation (which can be found in Note 7 in the 
consolidated financial statements detailed in Section 5.2) are 
subject to regular analysis. Average remuneration cost trends 
across operations are regularly monitored to evaluate, monitor and 
anticipate the impact of staff demographic momentum (recruits, 
leavers, promotions, etc.) on the development of this key indicator.
The Compensation Committee of the Capgemini SE Board of 
Directors makes recommendations to the Board of Directors on 
the compensation of the Company’s Executive Corporate Officers 
and is informed of the compensation policies related to the Group’s 
Senior Managers, in particular equity -based incentives which are 
subject to Board approval.
Pay equity
It is our conviction that a diverse workforce and an equitable and 
inclusive culture are central to innovation, creativity, and the business 
value we create for our clients. We continuously work towards 
strengthening our policies and practices to present equitable 
opportunities for development, progression, and compensation. 
An important part of this journey is certifying ourselves against 
leading external standards. We put our diversity and inclusion 
policies and practices, including our pay review policies, through a 
voluntary external assessment. We continue to work on enhancing 
and providing a globally consistent approach for pay equity, factoring 
in the impact of skills, experience within grades, performance and 
location, amongst other factors.As pay equity is a key area of focus, we ensure that we are compliant 
with prevailing legislation in place.
In France, we have an annual Equality Index assessment that 
includes a pay equity Section based on a methodology presented 
and validated with employee representatives which revealed very 
limited variances for similar roles. This has enabled us to reach a 
pay equity score of 38 out of a maximum of 40 on the 2022 Pay 
Equity Section of this index (in place since 2018). This high score 
is driven by a variance of less than 2% between men and women 
(in favor of men) overall within France and reflects the long -term 
work with employee representatives on this matter. In addition, 
we had the maximum scores for the percentage of promotions 
as compared between men and women and in relation to the fair 
treatment of women returning from parental leave.
Overall, Capgemini scored 94 over 100 on the index (including 
aspects other than pay) and has scored between 93 and 94 over 
the last four years.
In addition, in October 2022, Capgemini group renewed its EDGE 
global certification valid for a period of two years and obtained 
the EDGE+ global certification, with nine countries involved, 
representing more than 82% of its total workforce.
This showcases a strong commitment towards gender and 
intersectional equity in multiple dimensions (ethnicity, gender, 
sexual orientation, age, nationality, disability, etc.).
The minimum salaries applied by the Group in countries in which 
we operate exceed generally the corresponding country legal 
minimum wage (or in some exceptional cases can be equal to this 
legal minimum wage). The minimum wages are also at or above the 
living wages in our 10 biggest countries representing 85% of our 
headcount based on a first analysis done with an external provider. 
As Capgemini is committed to ensuring that its workforce is paid 
at least at or above the minimum wage level, all geographies have 
strong governance systems in place to ensure employees are in 
full compliance with minimum wage regulations.
Allocation of share -based incentive schemes and employee 
stock access (esoP)
Capgemini SE has allocated share -based instruments (stock options 
until 2008 and performance shares since 2009) on a regular basis 
in line with its Corporate Governance rules. These allocations are 
made selectively with the aim of rewarding employee performance, 
potential and engagement, namely for those who have made 
exceptional contributions to the Company. Any employee in the 
Group may be selected to receive them. This is an exceptional 
reward, not guaranteed on a yearly basis, and does not form part 
of the general remuneration policy. Also, the number of people 
benefiting from such allocation is growing in order to associate 
more and more employees with the Group’s long -term performance 
and more than 5,000 employees have been covered in the last 
3 plans, reaching 5,038 people in 2023.
The Management Report, presented at each Capgemini SE 
Shareholders’ Meeting, provides a detailed yearly breakdown 
of the performance share allocations (refer to Section 2.3.4  for 
further information).
Currently, performance shares granted to Executive Corporate 
Officers represent a very low percentage of the total shares 
distributed. The associated resolution sets a maximum limit of 10% 
to be allocated to Executive Corporate Officers and the volume 
effectively allocated to them represents just above 2% of the total 
grants of all performance share plans since 2009.

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
social: aligned entrepreneurs with protection & respect for all
201
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI4Detailed information regarding performance shares allocated 
by Capgemini SE to Executive Corporate Officers and to the ten 
main beneficiaries (non-Directors), the options exercised by the 
latter, and details of these plans are provided in Section 6.1.4 of 
this Universal Registration Document.
The Group also offers its employees the possibility to participate 
and invest in an employee share ownership plan (ESOP). This plan, 
which was first launched in 2009, is now proposed on an annual 
basis since 2017, and is offered to 97% of our global population.
b)  Main achievements in 2023
1.  develop a dynamic skills pipeline, using both internal 
and external talent pools with a focus on acquiring and 
growing skills in demand
Own workforce
The Group’s headcount broke the symbolic barrier of 300,000 employees 
in September 2021, three years after passing the 200,000 employee mark at the start of 2018, which was itself just over seven years 
after crossing the 100,000 -employee mark in September 2010. 
This growth momentum has been fueled both through external 
growth with, in particular, the acquisition of Altran in 2020, 
which brought in nearly 50,000 new employees, and through 
organic growth driven by a very dynamic market post Covid crisis 
followed by a lower demand in 2023. As a result, we had just above 
340,000 employees at year end.
More than 97% of our headcount work under a permanent contract 
(scope: 99.7% of headcount).
Changes over total headcount
The average headcount is calculated by adding the average 
headcount at the start of the financial year and the headcount for 
12 months, divided by 13.
Metrics2021 2022 2023 
headcount Change headcount Change Headcount Change 
Annual average headcount 292,690 16.4% 347,758 18.8% 349,793 0.6% 
headcount at the end of the year 324,684 20.4% 359,567 10.7% 340,443 √ -5.3% 
Scope: Capgemini group.
√ Data identified in these tables by a √ has been reviewed by Mazars with a reasonable level of assurance.
Geographical breakdown of the headcount
Following the very significant headcount growth in 2020 related to 
the acquisition of Altran adding nearly 50,000 employees, with a 
strong European footprint, the post Covid -19 crisis rebound drove a shift in the headcount’s geographical breakdown. However, 
organic growth has since been significant and Asia Pacific remains 
the most significant region by far, accounting for more than 53% 
of headcount.
regionsDecember 31, 2021 December 31, 2022 December 31, 2023 
headcount % headcount % Headcount  % 
north America 19,588 6.0% 20,891 5.8% 18,941 5.6% 
united Kingdom and Ireland 12,172 3.7% 14,182 3.9% 14,391 4.2% 
nordic countries 6,304 1.9% 7,323 2.0% 7,157 2.1% 
Benelux 10,415 3.2% 11,341 3.2% 10,945 3.2% 
Central e urope and e astern e urope 24,219 7.5% 27,640 7.7% 27,322 8.0% 
France 37,283 11.5% 39,479 11.0% 38,460 11.3% 
southern e urope 21,655 6.7% 23,646 6.6% 23,569 6.9% 
Asia ‑Pacific 178,358 54.9% 197,205 54.8% 181,402 53.3% 
Latin America 10,050 3.1% 11,577 3.2% 11,055 3.2% 
Middle e ast and Africa 4,640 1.4% 6,283 1.7% 7,201 2.1% 
TOTAL 324,684 100% 359,567 100% 340,443 √ 100% 
Scope: Capgemini group.
√ Data identified in these tables by a √ has been reviewed by Mazars with a reasonable level of assurance.
Since 2021, the Central & Eastern Europe, UK & Ireland and MEA 
regions have experienced the highest increase in their respective 
weight in the overall population and, to a lower extent, Southern Europe and the Nordic countries. Over the same period, the weight 
of Asia Pacific, France and North America decreased, while Benelux 
and Latin America were stable.

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
social: aligned entrepreneurs with protection & respect for all
202
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT4Gender distribution at Group level and by region
regionsDecember 31, 2023 
Women Men 
Capgemini 38.8% √ 61.2% √ 
north America 29.4% 70.6% 
united Kingdom and Ireland 31.9% 68.1% 
nordic countries 33.4% 66.6% 
Benelux 25.7% 74.3% 
Central e urope and e astern e urope 40.5% 59.5% 
France 31.9% 68.1% 
southern e urope 30.7% 69.3% 
Asia ‑Pacific 43.4% 56.6% 
Latin America 36.3% 63.7% 
Middle e ast and Africa 46.0% 54.0% 
Scope: Capgemini group.
√ Data identified in these tables by a √ has been reviewed by Mazars with a reasonable level of assurance.
headcount distribution by nationality
Capgemini’s focus on diversity is also reflected in the various demographics and the 160+ nationalities represented within the Group.
nationality December 31, 2022 December 31, 2023 
Indian 64.2% 66.0% 
French 13.4% 11.6% 
Polish 2.0% 3.9% 
spanish 3.2% 3.8% 
American 5.7% 3.4% 
British 4.7% 3.7% 
German 4.4% 3.4% 
other nationalities 2.4% 4.3% 
Scope: 7 largest countries representing 80.2% of the total headcount as of December 31st, 2023.
seniority distribution
After two years of intense hiring, the volume of hires returned 
to a pre-Covid level. Therefore, the average percentage of our 
population with a seniority of less than 3 years, which showed 
growth at the end of 2022, fell by 3.5 pts in 2023 compared to a rise in employees with greater seniority, with, in particular, 
the more experienced categories having between 5 to 10 years 
of seniority in the Group. As a result, average seniority slightly 
increased to 4.1 years, compared to 3.7 years at the end of 2022 
and 3.8 years in 2021.
Average seniority in % December 31, 2021 December 31, 2022 December 31, 2023 
< 3 years 63.4% 68.9% 65.4% √ 
 ≥ 3 < 5 years 13.3% 10.9% 10.7% √ 
 ≥ 5 < 10 years 13.2% 10.0% 12.4% √ 
 ≥ 10 years 10.1% 10.2% 11.5% √ 
Scope: Capgemini group.
Data coverage on 99.7% of year end headcount.
√ Data identified in these tables by a √ has been reviewed by Mazars with a reasonable level of assurance.

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
social: aligned entrepreneurs with protection & respect for all
203
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI4Age distribution
The reduced level of hiring compared to the last 2 years, even though 
still driven by a high number of young graduates, had an impact 
on the average age which increased by nearly 0.4 years from 33.5 in 2022 to 33.9 in 2023. The average age of joiners was 30.9 years 
in 2023. As a result, the percentage of the population aged under 
25 decreased by 4.2 points, with the most significant increase 
being in the 25 -35 age bracket. All other categories rose by 2%.
Age group December 31, 2021 December 31, 2022 December 31, 2023 
< 25 years old 17.9% 19.0% 14.8% √ 
 ≥ 25 < 35 years old 46.1% 45.8% 47.6% √ 
 ≥ 35 < 45 years old 22.5% 21.9% 23.1% √ 
 ≥ 45 < 55 years old 9.6% 9.5% 10.3% √ 
 ≥ 55 years old 3.9% 3.9% 4.2% √ 
Scope: Capgemini group.
Data coverage on 99.5% of year end headcount.
√ Data identified in these tables by a √ has been reviewed by Mazars with a reasonable level of assurance.
People working part -time & foreign nationals
Flexible working conditions is also a feature which is offered and 
being able to work abroad is an attractive option for many employees. 
People choosing to work on a part -time basis represent 2.03% 
of the total headcount (a 0.1 pt increase vs. 2022), with however 
significant differences, as this is mostly practiced in European and Anglo-Saxon countries. If we exclude India where it is not a local 
practice, this percentage exceeds 4%. The Netherlands remains 
the country with the highest percentage of employees working 
part -time (above 15%), followed by Germany and Austria (above 
10%). Within the population working on a part -time basis, 58% are 
women and 42% are men.
 Metrics scope 2021 2022 2023 
People working 
part- time% of headcount (total headcount at  
the end of the year) working part time98.8% 2.7% 1.9% 2.0% 
Foreign n ationals % of headcount, at the end of the year, 
requiring an employment visa for work94.6%  
(17 biggest countries)5.5% 5.8% 7.5% 
Scope: Capgemini group.
external hiring and attrition
New hires include employees who joined Capgemini after the 
usual recruitment process during the financial year and who are 
part of the headcount (new hires incorporated via acquisitions/
operations are excluded).
Following the Covid -19 crisis, which had a significant impact on 
external hiring levels in 2020, with a marked 50+ % reduction in recruits compared to the previous year, recruiting did not stop 
and kicked off again towards the end of 2020. It significantly 
rebounded in 2021 and 2022, both years seeing record highs in 
the Group’s history with close to 140,000 hires, before returning 
to a still significant but somewhat reduced volume exceeding 
61,000 hires in 2023.
The coverage rate for new hires is 100%.
 Metrics 2021 2022 2023 
Talent  
attractivenessNumber of external hires 139,594 140,789 61,182 √ 
Number of hires through acquisitions 1,005 1,836 1,472 
Implementation 
of local initiatives 
preventing the 
unwanted departure 
of employees% of annual average headcount voluntary attrition 23.5% 25.5% 16.7% √ 
% of annual average headcount total attrition 28.4% 30.8% 23.1% 
Scope: Capgemini group.
√ Data identified in these tables by a √ has been reviewed by Mazars with a reasonable level of assurance.
Talent brand & attractiveness
Glassdoor metrics in 2023 showcased three advancements within 
Capgemini’s Talent Acquisition landscape. First, our continuous 
focus on sustaining scores and reviews. Secondly, a pivotal addition 
to our Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) was the introduction of tracking interview experiences, aligning with our commitment 
to refining candidate journeys. Lastly, we increased our response 
rate from below 10% to 15% and beyond across various brands, 
underscoring our proactive engagement with employees and 
ex-employee feedback. Here is a view of Capgemini’s performance 
on Glassdoor in 2023:
overall 
ratingCulture & 
valuesWork life 
balancesenior 
mana -
gementComp. & 
BenefitsCareer 
opportunitiesdiversity 
and 
Inclusionrecommend 
to a friendCeo 
ApprovalPositive 
business 
outlookPositive 
interview 
experience
3.9 4.0 3.9 3.6 3.4 3.9 4.1 82% 91% 75% 79%
Scale 1 to 5 (5 is the highest score).

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
social: aligned entrepreneurs with protection & respect for all
204
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT4external awards & recognition
Capgemini garners acclaim across various dimensions as an 
employer of choice. 
We have earned accolades stemming from diverse perspectives: 
firstly, external recognition has amplified our appeal globally, 
with Universum placing us among the Top 50 most attractive 
employers for IT students worldwide . Locally, Capgemini UK has 
been awarded a place for the first time in the industry bible for 
graduates – The Times Top 100. Places are awarded based on the 
views of over 12,000 graduates as to which employers offer the 
best opportunities for graduates.
Our awards based on employee or ex -employee satisfaction 
affirm our commitment to fostering exceptional workplaces. We 
have clinched esteemed titles such as the Great Place to Work in 
countries like the UK, Canada, the US, Brazil, and India. Specific 
recognition for Capgemini Invent in the UK and Germany as the 
Glassdoor Best Places to Work further has fortified our dedication 
to employee satisfaction.
Our HR practices have been prized with Top Employer awards across 
several countries (France, Portugal, Italy, Belgium, Germany, Spain, 
Poland, and Morocco). These recognitions stem from comprehensive 
surveys evaluating our HR practices.Leveraging data insights from employees and recruiters, LinkedIn 
acknowledges Capgemini’s excellence as a LinkedIn Top Company 
in New Zealand, Poland, Portugal, France, and Sweden, affirming 
our commitment to fostering professional growth environments.
In 2023, Capgemini also won 26 Brandon Hall Group Excellence 
Awards for different learning offers across the Group. Being 
recognized as one of the most awarded companies in 2023 and 
winning a Gold Excellence Award for Best Learning Team show 
our commitment to supporting the growth and development of 
all our employees – from pre -boarding experiences through to 
senior executive offers.
2.  Zone in on building skills at scale
In 2023, we exceeded our global ESG target of 51.0 ACLH, reaching 
66.5 ACLH by the year -end, representing 26.4% growth in learning 
hours across the Company versus  the previous year, to 22.0 million 
learning hours. For the first time and to further recognize the 
changing learning preferences of our employees, and the shift 
to more learning in the workflow, Capgemini has included on the 
job learning in our recognized training hours. This approach of job 
learning equated to 4.2 million learning hours in 2023. This further 
demonstrates our commitment in enabling our employees to learn 
at the right time and in the right way across our organization.
Metrics unit 2021 2022 2023 
Total number of training hours (in millions) Millions of 
hours12.8 17.4 17.8 √ 
Total number of training hours, including learning in the flow of work  
(in millions)Millions of 
hours  22.0 
Average Completed Learning h ours per headcount at the end of the year,  
trained during the reporting periodHours 45.7 51.4 53.8 √ 
Average Completed Learning Hours, including learning in the flow of work,  
per headcount at the end of the year, trained during the reporting periodHours   66.5 
Scope: Capgemini group.
The average is calculated on the basis of active learners rather than against the employee headcount.
√ Data identified in these tables by a √ has been reviewed by Mazars with a reasonable level of assurance.
3.  Performance management, talent retention and 
promotion
96% of our employees are now using our new performance 
management approach. Those countries where it is not yet deployed 
will adopt this new approach and tool in 2024. Employees express 
a highly positive experience on the clarity of their Goals with an 
engagement score of 8.6 (out of 10).
85% of our employees were assessed in 2023. Those who joined 
in Q4 have not yet been assessed as they have been part of the 
Company for a shorter time but will be part of the next Quarterly 
People Reviews in Q1 2024.4.  Talent engagement
Pulse employee engagement metrics are monitored at all levels 
of the Group (from Board to Operations) and provide a detailed 
view through many attributes (Business Unit, country, gender, 
age group, management level, tenure, among others) to further 
understand and act on employee perceptions and expectations 
in a focused way.
In 2023:
 —  the overall engagement remained flat throughout 2023 at 7.9; 
 —  the aggregated employee participation rate reached 75% 
in 2023, a significant increase compared to 58% the year 
before; and
 —  in a challenging economic environment, we were able to 
maintain a high level of engagement across the Board.

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
social: aligned entrepreneurs with protection & respect for all
205
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI4Statistics	as	of	December 2023
Men WomenEngagement score
(by gender, on a 10 level scale)eNPS
(by gender, from -100 to +100)Actively engaged employees
(by gender, in %)
10
8
6
4
2
Engagement score
(by management level, on a 10 level scale)
10
8
6
4
2Actively engaged employees
(by management level, in %)
100%
80%
60%
40%
20%Men Women50
40
30
20
10
Men Women100%
80%
60%
40%
20%7,9 7,9
A8.1
B7.9
C7.7
D7.6
E7.7
F8.4
A85
B82
C81
D79
E81
F9033 3382 83
eNPS stands for employee Net Promoter Score.
Scope: Capgemini group.
This model has been critical in keeping the pulse on employee 
engagement and enabled managers and leaders across the Group 
to monitor and react to the qualitative and quantitative feedback 
from their teams in the hybrid work environment.Pulse listening helped our Business and HR teams to gather valuable 
intelligence and drive impactful initiatives.
 Metrics 2021 2022 2023 
Group engagement 
scoreGroup engagement score – Aggregate average Engagement Score  
(from 0 to 10)8.0 8.0 7.9 
Pulse participation 
ratePulse participation rate – Aggregate full year employee participation rate 
in Pulse (in %)  66% 58% 75% 
Actively engaged 
employees  (1) Group engagement score – Actively engaged employees  
(% of the respondents with Engagement Score 7 -10)83% 85% 82% 
Scope: for 2021, the scope was Capgemini legacy; from 2022 and onwards, the scope is Capgemini group.
(1) Definition: SASB Actively engaged: the classification should generally reflect the use of 4, 5, 7 or 10 -point scales, where “actively engaged” is 3 -4 on a 4 -point scale, 4 -5 on 
a 5-point scale, 5 -7 on a 7 -point scale, and 7‑10 on a 10‑point scale , or the equivalent. Sources: the Vitality Institute and Aon Hewitt. Determining who is actively engaged: 
engagement is generally determined through a composite score derived from several questions. However, it may also be determined with a single question about “overall” 
engagement. Whatever the case, the result should be provided in a scale that corresponds to the above definitions of “actively engaged”.
Employee stock access (ESOP)
In 2023, the plan covered 32 countries and once again, more 
than 50,000 employees participated in the latest plan for a total 
subscription of €466 million.Employee share ownership remained above 8% as of end of 2023, 
at 8.9% of our share capital. This has enabled us since 2012 to have 
employee shareholder representation on the Board of Directors 
of Capgemini SE ( refer to Section 2.1.3 ).

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
social: aligned entrepreneurs with protection & respect for all
206
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT44314  Enhancement of a diverse workforce and an 
inclusive culture (policies, actions, and main 
achievements in 2023)
[GRI 405 -1]; [GRI 405 -2]
[SASB TC-SI-330a.3]
a)  our ambition
As a global leader in business and technology transformation, it 
is our strong conviction that a diverse workforce and an inclusive 
and equitable culture boost creativity and innovation and are, 
therefore, integral to being a high -performance company.
Diversity and inclusion are essential to our Group identity and our 
value proposition. As technology continues to increasingly be at 
the heart of value creation, the diversity of the tech workforce to 
better represent our clients, their customers, and society at large 
is vital. By bringing in such diverse talent, we enrich our teams with 
different skills and perspectives, helping us to anticipate and adapt 
proactively to rapidly evolving stakeholder needs.
Our definition of diversity encompasses all personal attributes, to 
reflect society in all its richness. It includes, among others, sex and 
gender identity, age, race/ethnicity or nationality, sexual orientation, 
ability status, social origin, cultural identity, faiths, working methods, 
skills, and experiences… We value the differences and uniqueness 
of our people, while cultivating our commonalities, to ensure a 
safe, open, and collaborative environment, where all individuals 
feel valued and contribute effectively to the success of the Group.
We not only comply with regulations, but we also aim to uphold 
the highest standards and fully subscribe to key principles, namely, 
inclusivity, integrity, stewardship, and transparency, as outlined 
in the first commitment of our human rights policy titled “Equal 
opportunity and fair treatment”.
Our strategy is outlined in the recently released Diversity and 
Inclusion Group policy, highlighted within our ESG policy, and 
actively contributes to achieving targets set by three key United 
Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDG 5, SDG 8, and SDG 10):
ESG	priority	D:	Enhance	a	diverse,	inclusive	and	hybrid	
work environment
Capgemini’s Diversity and Inclusion policy pursues four main 
ambitions:
 —  Be a destination company where all talents can thrive.  
While we remain focused on progressing towards more parity 
between genders, we have broadened our perspective of 
diversity and we commit to ensuring a better representation 
of society in all its richness.
 —  Offer an inclusive workplace with equal opportunities 
for all.  Beyond diversity, we promote equity, offering equal 
opportunities and fair treatment to all, by monitoring the 
recruitment mix, equal promotion rates, and equal pay for 
equal work. It relies on fair management and processes, 
aligned with the highest standards, as defined by external 
certification and indexes.
 —  strengthen an inclusive culture, engaging all our 
workforce.  We cultivate a safe and respectful workplace 
where leaders are made accountable and invited to 
self-reflect on their daily behaviors, in line with our core 
values, Code of Business Ethics, and new leadership model. Beyond Managers, employees can contribute to the 
Employee Networks or volunteering initiatives promoted in 
our CSR policy. Every one of us is instrumental in building a 
friendly environment where everyone can be their authentic 
self and find their way, combining professional ambition and 
personal life.
 —  Make business and technology transformation an 
opportun ity for local communities and broader society . 
We commit to playing our part in breaking down barriers and 
making meaningful change happen beyond our boundaries. 
In our relationships with our clients, partners, providers, 
external affiliations, and communities, our way of operating 
and our thought leadership aim at driving positive impact 
and shaping positive futures.
1.  Be a destination company where all talents can thrive
Improve gender balance
We firmly believe in the pivotal role women play in shaping the 
digital economy across technology, business, and client -facing 
roles. Our commitment involves elevating women’s representation 
throughout the talent value chain, with a target of 40% women 
in our overall workforce and 30% in global executive leadership 
positions by 2025.
To meet our ambition, we developed a global framework around 
four main levers:
Showcasing more inspiring role models and reflecting our 
focus on improving gender diversity in our recruitment 
processes and sourcing talent pool.
To attract more female candidates, we have developed internal 
Balanced Hiring guidelines , setting an inclusive approach for all 
stages of the recruitment process.
 —  Sourcing: Enhancing gender neutrality in our ads, targeting 
specific job boards, increasing female referrals, and adapting 
guidelines for headhunters to present diverse profiles.
 —  Screening: Expanding screening flexibility to welcome 
women after career breaks or returning mothers and 
advocating for blind hiring to eliminate unconscious bias in 
the screening stage.
 —  Panel interviews: Incorporating a gender -balanced panel to 
enhance the attractiveness and inclusivity of the process.
Three flagship initiatives have been extended as global programs:
 —  herstory , launched in 2021, our women role models’ 
campaign has extended through 2022 and 2023, emphasizing 
digital and STEM roles. This ongoing effort is reshaping 
perceptions and affirming the suitability of technical careers 
for women in our employer branding.
 —  “CAPtivate” , Capgemini’s Career Comeback initiative 
supports skilled female professionals aiming to re -enter the 
workforce. This program is rolled out in the US, India, and 
Australia.
 —  “she said yes” – Capgemini Alumni employees : First 
pioneered in India, the project encouraging former 
Capgemini employees to return after gaining experience in 
other companies has now expanded to North America and 
France.

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
social: aligned entrepreneurs with protection & respect for all
207
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI4ensuring more female representation in business, client 
facing and core tech roles through career pathways.
We aim to foster career intentionality and offer support to women, 
accelerating their career paths through networking, training, and 
mentoring initiatives.
 —  our Women@capgemini employee networks , 
initiated in 2012, keep on expanding globally and at the 
country level, including communities like WomenInSAP, 
WomenInEngineering, WomenInCyber, and WomenInSales. 
They organize focus group discussions such as Women’s 
Net Talk in Germany, mentorship programs as in Brazil and 
France, and actively encourage women to pursue internal 
and external certifications, such as Women in Delivery.
 —  Women for the Future Awards stands as the network’s 
pivotal global initiative , fostering the exposure and 
leadership development of women. The 2022 global edition 
featured over 3,300  nominees across three categories-
Women of Talent, Innovation, and Sustainability -aligned 
with Capgemini’s strategic priorities. The 370 finalists were 
honored at the celebration ceremony held on March  8th, 
2023, for International Women’s Day, and the 150  winners 
were subsequently enrolled in an online leadership pathway. 
This pathway includes self -assessment, peer coaching, and 
exchanges with senior executives.
enabling women’s representation in managerial and 
leadership roles through talent development programs, 
mentoring, and sponsorship.
Talent Acceleration programs:  We ensure that women are fully 
represented in the Group’s flagship programs, including Game Changer, 
Pace Setter, Connect and Drive, and Connected Manager, with an 
average target of 40% women. Additionally, various countries or 
SBUs have instituted their local talent programs. Among the most 
emblematic, we find Powerahead  in Financial services, extended 
from middle to junior managers with great traction and success, 
or WiTI  (Women in Tech in India) offering additional Interactive 
and Social platforms.
To reach a minimum of 30% women in executive roles by the end 
of 2025, we help more women access top leadership positions:
 —  strategic talent reviews are organized across the 
Group:  units have enforced a robust process, ensuring the 
inclusion of at least one woman in succession plans. Women 
with potential are identified early on and provided with 
comprehensive support in their development plans, aiming 
to fully prepare them within two years for promotion to VP 
and EVP levels.
 —  empow her , launched in November 2022, is the new 2 -year 
journey, with senior leader sponsors who support high 
potential women VPs in achieving growth opportunities, 
visibility, and stepping -stone roles to advance their career 
until executive positions.
Promoting engagement and retention through more 
flexibility at work and parental support.
Convinced that the decision to stay or leave is closely tied to the 
flexibility and recognition provided by the Company during crucial 
moments in one’s professional or personal journey, we have been 
developing:
 —  A global Flex work policy:  our hybrid model, with more 
remote working and flexibility in terms of working hours 
and work location, enables our employees to combine their 
professional ambition with their personal life, and is likely to 
reduce attrition in influencing decisions at key life moments, such as maternity or parental leave. In India for instance, our 
team developed the fareWelcome! program , aimed at both 
individuals and people managers to ensure that all the stress 
and demands experienced currently by women returning 
to the workplace can be discussed and managed openly, 
honestly, and in a collaborative and supportive environment. 
Similar programs exist in other countries, such as “ Keep in 
Touch with your M’Partner ” in Morocco.
 —  Childcare facilities and parental schemes:  In 2023 several 
countries and business units put a special focus on parents 
and carers:
 –  extending parental leave durations  and removing 
eligibility criteria such as minimum tenure. Across 
the Group, the average primary parental leave is 
approximately 23 weeks (e.g., up to 16 months in Sweden, 
26 weeks in India, and 20 weeks in Italy and Poland).
 –  Offering creche benefits to all our employees  
(a gender -neutral initiative) either regularly or for 
exceptional cases. For instance, our partner la Maison 
Bleue in France provides year -long available spaces and 
can offer emergency or occasional childcare for up to 
6 days per year.
 –  Introducing, in all Capgemini offices globally, maternity 
or lactation rooms  as per the CRES global Space design 
guidelines.
 –  Organizing talks and tips exchange sessions, such as the 
Super Mommies club in Morocco and Moms Coffees in 
Brazil.
 –  Supporting internal employee networks, such as 
Parents@CG in India.
 –  C o n s i d ering all kinds of families, through the Care Day 
in Germany, the Bring Your Kids to the Office Day in 
Morocco, and the Guide for LGBT+ parents and carers in 
Australia.
We monitor women’s engagement and attrition:  to ensure that 
we better understand all women’s expectations, we monitor 
employee engagement scores and comments per gender every 
month and do not find overall statistically significant differences 
with the average male scores.
In the same spirit, exit interviews with women serving notice have 
become common practice to identify motivations for leaving the 
Company. In some cases, such conversations help resolve concerns 
and in quite a few cases, have succeeded in retaining talent.
More generally, we pay constant attention to the representation of 
women at all grades and monitor the development of our pyramid 
thanks to our global hr  systems and dashboards , directly fed from 
the local payroll systems. It enables us to monitor and anticipate 
every trend at Group level and for the 15 core countries and 
5 global business lines, with a combined recruitment, promotion, 
and retention perspective. In November 2023, we launched an 
enhanced People Insights dashboard , featuring a comprehensive 
Section on gender parity.
This update enables us to test assumptions, such as the average 
time before promotion for men and women and the average 
performance rating based on gender.
external awards and recognitions
Capgemini group has been recognized for its efforts in promoting 
gender parity:
 —  One of the largest organizations to be edGe Assess and 
EDGEplus globally certified  for its strong dedication to 
gender and intersectional equity.

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
social: aligned entrepreneurs with protection & respect for all
208
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT4 —  Listed in the Bloomberg Gender- equality Index , surpassing 
industry averages by 10 points.
 —  Recognize d by EQUILEAP as one of the top 100 Companies 
for gender equality globally .
Embrace 	different 	abilities
We actively embrace people with disabilities and neurodivergence 
and have broadened our perspective to include all abilities. Any 
limitation on business or any restriction in participating in society 
as a result of lasting impairment of a person’s mental or physical 
abilities constitutes a disability. We have progressively enlarged 
our focus to embrace physical impairment, chronic disease, 
long -term or invalidating illness, mental health, and neurodiversity 
or neurodivergence.
Our approach is always to consider the person first, acknowledging 
that the work environment may increase or reduce the visible and 
invisible limitations. Our commitment is supported by our CEO’s 
engagement with the v aluable 500  global community, advocating 
for more capability inclusion. We are an active member of the ILo 
Global d isability network , exchanging best practices with our 
peers and institutional partners.
Local countries have their own affiliations and memberships, 
notably: Manifeste Inclusion  in France, onCe foundation  in Spain, 
nCPed P (National Center for Promotion of Employment for Disabled 
People) and CII-IB dn (The Confederation of Indian Industry- India 
Business Disability Network) in India, Disability Confident Employer 
in the UK. Capgemini Italy signed the european Charter for equal 
opportunities , which also covers people with disabilities.
our d &I policy is built around three main objectives:
 —  Accessibility by design, for our digital tools and workplaces, 
providing tailored and reasonable adjustments.  As we 
promote accessibility by design and by usage as described 
in our revised version of the CRES global guide, accessibility 
must be considered from:
 –  A communication and training perspective:  we have 
released a global infographic to assist colleagues in 
creating more accessible decks and presentations. 
Additionally, we have been reviewing all mandatory 
training modules to incorporate accessible transcripts.
 –  A physical standpoint:  in addition to implementing new 
guidelines and standards for all Capgemini offices, the 
Group CRES conducts physical audits to identify and 
address any remaining accessibility issues.
 –  A digital angle:  our Global Employee User Experience 
team has incorporated accessibility as a mandatory 
criterion in bid requests for new application purchases or 
new suppliers,  aligning with the WCAG baseline. Morocco 
has released a best practice guide for the accessibility 
of digital products, and the UK has initiated a project 
focused on reasonable adjustments.
 —  Increased workforce representation of people with 
disabilities, either through direct recruitment or 
subcontracting and encouraging self -disclosure.
 –  direct recruitment:  As people with disabilities are 
less represented in our usual recruitment channels, 
such as business and engineering schools, we actively 
participate in specialized recruitment fairs. Our job ads 
explicitly state their openness to everyone, including individuals with limitations. We conduct training 
sessions for our recruitment teams, educating them on 
potential adaptations for interviews. In specific regions 
like India and Brazil, we offer sign language assistance 
upon request for candidates with hearing impairments. 
Morocco has organized a disability recruitment week, 
and in France, we have formed 85  pairs as part of the 
Duo Day national initiative, providing life immersion 
opportunities for candidates with disabilities.
 –  subcontracting with the sheltered sector:  Indirect 
recruiting serves as an alternative approach. For instance, 
Capgemini France spent with Entreprises Adaptées  (EA) 
and Établissements et Services d’Aide par le Travail  (ESAT) 
€3.48 million in 2023.
 –  self-disclosure of our employees:  We consider that 
fostering a safe and inclusive workplace will encourage 
our colleagues to voluntarily disclose their ability status. 
This approach is mutually beneficial: they assist us in 
adapting our support schemes and processes while 
directly  benefiting from these improvements. In India, 
the HR system has been upgraded to better capture 
ability status, and in Italy, My Personal Passport has 
been developed to allow our colleagues to express, in 
their own words, their limitations or adjustment needs 
once and for all. It helps to inform their managers and 
colleagues, facilitating their full integration as any other 
team member.
Capgemini France finalized its disability agreement 
in d ecember, reinforcing the professional inclusion 
of individuals with disabilities . The agreement aims 
to expedite progress toward the legal threshold of 6% 
representation in the workforce, compared to the 3.35% 
achieved in 2023. Once approved by local authorities, the 
agreement will extend until the end of 2026.
 —  Increasing awareness through training and employee 
networks
In 2023, we focused specifically on three areas:
 —  deaf people and sign language:  with Café du silence in 
Bordeaux (France), a World of Silence webinar in Poland, 
and Training sessions on Libras in Brazil.
 —  neurodiversity:  India organized several awareness 
sessions with over 7,000  participants. The UK made 
a significant breakthrough with its second cohort 
of internships in partnership with Ambitious about 
Autism, offering a dedicated training pathway on our 
Next platform, and incorporating medical support and 
diagnostics into the UK medical plan. At the Group 
level, we communicated three awareness fact sheets on 
neurodiversity and established expectations for sensory 
rooms.
 —  Mental  health:  with two events in Brazil, a session on 
women’s well -being and mental health in India, and a 
training session for managers in the UK.
We promoted the extension of our employee networks : CAPability  
is now active in eleven countries , and we have introduced four 
NeuroAbility chapters in India, Poland, Brazil, and Australia. The 
testimonials and contributions from our employees are pivotal 
in steering our progress toward greater inclusion of individuals 
with diverse abilities.

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
social: aligned entrepreneurs with protection & respect for all
209
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI4external awards and recognitions
Locally, Capgemini has been recognized for its efforts in supporting 
individuals with disabilities:
 —  Capgemini UK has been reaccredited as Disability Confident 
employer  from the UK Government.
 —  Capgemini North America has been listed in the Best 
Workplace to Work for d isability Inclusion  from 
Disability:IN.
Improve the makeup and inclusion of under‑represented 
minorities and indigenous people in our workforce
With +340,000 team members in more than 50 countries, representing 
160 nationalities, Capgemini is a multicultural company. As a 
founding member of the World e conomic Forum’s  partnering 
for racial justice in business initiative, we take an uncompromising 
stand in support of cultural equality and ending any form of 
discrimination and racism.
In some of the countries we operate in, the representation of 
people from an ethnic origin or cultural background is a key focus:
 —  Capgemini us country board has publicly committed 
to reaching a minimum of 20% of u nder- represented 
Minorities  (all ethnicities but White and South Asian people) 
in their workforce by the end of 2025.
 —  Capgemini u K is a signatory of the UK Business race at 
Work Charter.
 —  Capgemini Australia  has set an ambitious reconciliation 
Action Plan  and advocated for constitutional recognition of 
the voice of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people in 
the October 14th referendum.
our key priorities are to:
 —  develop talent and sponsorship programs to identify and 
upskill diverse talent 
In 2023, the UK expanded support programs, previously 
tailored for women, to benefit ethnic minorities. This includes 
mentoring for Black individuals, along with training on the 
Black experience and diversity on boards. The objective is to 
foster representation from ethnic minority backgrounds at 
leadership levels, both within and beyond Capgemini.
 —  enable local employee networks 
Employee networks dedicated to supporting specific ethnicities 
such as Black X, HOLA, and AsiaPacT in the USA, and broader 
multicultural groups such as Prisma in Germany and the Race 
& Equality Network in the UK are present across the Group, 
with their names and scope adapted per country. They actively 
contribute to our celebratory communication campaigns, such 
as MLK (Martin Luther King’s) Day and Juneteenth, as well as 
Asian and South Asian Pacific heritage months in the US. During 
the Diwali festival, REN and AsiaPacT organized a joint event 
between UK and US employee networks. In the US, BlackX, 
AsiaPacT, HOLA, and GOLD Employee Resource Groups hosted 
over 100 engagement events including volunteer events with 
diverse community partners such as Per Scholas.
 —  Collaborate with indigenous and aboriginal 
representatives  
In the US, Canada, New Zealand and Australia, we acknowledge 
and respect the lands and cultures of the indigenous peoples. 
In Australia, our Reflect Reconciliation Action Plan (RAP) acts as a blueprint and actionable framework, aligning with 
Capgemini’s purpose to drive meaningful change in all areas 
of reconciliation. We are committed to enhancing education, 
awareness, recognition, and respect for the vibrant cultures, 
histories, and connections to the country, sky, and sea of our 
First Nation peoples. In New Zealand, an application has been 
created for the Maori language.
external awards and recognitions
Locally, Capgemini has been recognized for its efforts in supporting 
individuals from under -represented minorities:
 —  Capgemini North America has been nominated as a Best 
Company for Multicultural Women  by Seramount for the 
third consecutive year.
Support all gender identities and sexual orientations
While respecting local legislation, as a Group, we support all gender 
identities and sexual orientations. Our global Code of Business 
Ethics prohibits discrimination on the basis of gender identity or 
sexual orientation across the Group.
We are a signatory of the UN Standard of Conduct for Business, 
tackling discrimination against LGBT+ people, and a Global Founding 
Partner of Stonewall – an invitational membership organization 
for global companies leading the way on LGBT+ inclusion. In 2023, 
Capgemini France renewed its partnership with L’autre Cercle as 
a signatory member.
For only our second year of participation, Capgemini has been 
ranked as a Gold e mployer by the s tonewall Global Workplace 
equality Index , recognizing our efforts in:
 —  Increasing awareness and education on all LGBT+ 
dimensions, through our training webinars and Pride 
events.  Our ouTfront employee network,  spanning 
26  countries, plays an instrumental role in creating an 
inclusive workplace for the LGBT+ community. It actively 
fosters allyship, advocacy, and open conversations with our 
clients and partners. In addition to traditional Pride parades, 
which have significantly engaged employees, particularly 
in Sydney and Utrecht, In 2023, OUTfront developed a new 
podcast series, OUTspoken. Through various publications 
and discussion groups, it has expanded our collective 
knowledge and tolerance towards different components of 
the LGBT+ community and the diverse colors of the rainbow. 
This includes addressing intersex issues, promoting lesbian 
and bisexual visibility, and exploring transitioning, including 
a session featuring a lawyer in India.
 —  ensuring that our internal policies and processes 
consider and include our LGBT+ colleagues.  Our Stonewall 
membership serves as a benchmark for our policies and 
processes, ensuring equal rights and opportunities for our 
LGBT+ colleagues. We revisited our parental policies to 
encompass all types of unions and families, regardless of 
gender. The global CRES guide now includes guidance on 
inclusive restrooms . Capgemini France released a guide 
to assist HR professionals in managing transitioning . We 
enhanced our t ravel policy to provide increased information 
and safety for all employees, with special attention to LGBT+ 
people. Additionally, we adapted our SpeakUp  policy to offer 
a preliminary level of assistance  for LGBT+ colleagues 
requiring extra guidance when reporting potential 
misconduct, discrimination, or harassment cases.

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
social: aligned entrepreneurs with protection & respect for all
210
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT4 —  Creating an inclusive and safe environment for our LGBT+ 
employees to be out at work
Our June celebration communication campaign was titled 
‘Pride in Progress,’ emphasizing the authenticity of our 
commitments and the tangible impact we are making. The 
campaign focused on three main objectives: fostering a sense 
of safety and belonging, promoting allyship and advocacy, and 
enabling positive change.
external awards and recognitions
Capgemini group has been recognized for its efforts in supporting 
all gender identities and sexual orientations:
 —  Capgemini group has been awarded the Gold Top Global 
Employer Award by the Stonewall Global Workplace Equality 
Index.
Locally, Capgemini has also been recognized for its efforts in 
supporting all gender identities and sexual orientations:
 —  Capgemini Mexico, Capgemini Brazil, and Capgemini USA 
have been listed in the Best Places to Work for LGBTIQ+ by 
the Human Rights Campaign Foundation.
Support individuals in their personal trajectory and at 
different	stages	of	life
We support our employees in different life stages.
 —  We promote the integration of all generations within the 
Company. 
We believe that having various generations at work in Capgemini 
presents a significant opportunity for mutual learning, fostering 
the exchange of experiences, and creating opportunities 
for reverse mentoring. In France, where we are recognized 
among the top five employers by the Happy Trainees Index 
for internships,  we provide our colleagues with the option 
to contribute to an external Mécénat de Compétence project 
as their final role before retirement. Additionally, Capgemini 
Brazil has implemented specific actions for employees aged 
over 50, and in the UK, tailored initiatives are in place for 
those over 55, ensuring their continued full engagement and 
inclusion in our workforce.
 —  We develop dedicated programs to hire and reskill 
veterans ( uK, us & India), and refugees (Germany, 
netherlands, and Poland). 
Capgemini in India has initiated a program for Veteran Hiring and 
inclusion to strengthen ties with armed forces personnel and 
veterans, welcoming their valuable experiences, and insights. 
We have launched the Buddy framework for mentorship and 
support, along with JOSH, India’s Veteran Inclusion Employee 
network. In the UK, we have been honored as a top employer 
for veterans.
 —  In response to the conflict in Ukraine, Capgemini Poland 
and Germany have been actively supporting refugees, with 
Germany creating a training application for Ukrainian women 
and distributing job applications.
 —  We upskill and hire people who have taken career breaks 
through our return ship global initiative , as well as people 
from underprivileged areas or backgrounds , notably through 
our Digital Academ ies programs globally ( see digital inclusion 
Section ).external awards and recognitions
Locally, Capgemini has been recognized for its efforts in supporting 
Armed forces and Veterans:
 —  Capgemini UK has been awarded the Gold Award from the 
Ministry of d efense.
 —  Capgemini UK has also been listed among the 100  Great 
British e mployers of v eterans for the e x-forces in 
Business.
Respect all faiths and beliefs
All religious or cultural beliefs are welcome at Capgemini as long 
as they do not promote active proselytism or become a factor 
of exclusion. We notably accommodate flexible leave policy to 
consider main cultural or religious celebration days. In some 
countries where we operate (US, India) we offer the choice to our 
employees through floating holidays.
Our employee networks promote interfaith exchanges to increase 
mutual knowledge and respect across the Group. The culture 
and ethnicity network in the UK, REN, has sub -networks covering 
Christianity, Judaism, Islam, Hinduism, and Sikhism – which are 
open for all to learn and explore about different faiths.
2.  Offer an inclusive workplace with equal opportunities 
for all
Proud to be one of the largest companies by headcount to be 
EDGE+ certified  for our efforts towards the inclusion of all, we use 
these external references to accelerate our policies, identifying 
areas of improvement at Group and country levels and committing 
to act on them with the sponsorship of Capgemini’s Board and 
Country boards.
While we promote the concept of equity to offer true equal 
opportunities, we ensure that our programs may neither create an 
advantage nor represent a limitation to any employee presenting 
the required skill set, performance, and potential to get recruited, 
promoted, and rewarded.
Inclusive recruitment
Our recruitment policies aim at attracting the best talent. Our 
People v alue Proposition  is built on three pillars that guide us in 
recruiting and retaining diverse professionals, regardless of their 
identity and background:
 —  everyday empowerment:  Highlighting how Capgemini 
supports work -life balance; 
 —  shared energy:  Promoting diversity, inclusion, and 
collaboration at Capgemini; 
 —  impactful experiences:  Showcasing how Capgemini 
participates in building a more sustainable and inclusive 
future.
We have accordingly extended our talent sourcing pool:
 —  Capgemini US has developed an overall sourcing and 
recruiting strategy , incorporating brand ambassadors, 
employee testimonies, and active participation in diversity 
recruitment fairs or events such as the Black Tech 
conference and Resource Hub for recruiters, which includes 
a standardized template for job ads.
 —  Capgemini France has expanded its students Connection 
program . Over the past 8  years, the program has engaged 
more than 450 student ambassadors from over 70 campuses, 
actively promoting the job and career opportunities provided 
by Capgemini.

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
social: aligned entrepreneurs with protection & respect for all
211
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI4We regularly review our job descriptions to ensure only the criteria 
objectively required to perform the job are included. All qualified 
applicants, meeting the skills and experience expected for an open 
position, will receive consideration for employment without regard 
to their identity and background.
We take actions to mitigate unconscious biases:  
 —  We leverage leading technology solutions, such as Textio 
software.
 —  We train our talent acquisition teams, (one pilot scheme on 
Inclusive interviewing in the US in 2023 and one Group pilot 
learning pathway in Europe).
 —  We ensure that interviewers represent different profiles or 
perspectives.
external awards and recognitions
Locally, Capgemini has been recognized for its efforts in inclusive 
recruitment:
 —  Capgemini France has been awarded the Gold Award for 
Inclusive r ecruitment , by Mosaik HR, during the Sommet de 
l’inclusion au ministère de l’Economie et des finances et de la 
Souveraineté Industrielle et Numérique.
Equal promotion rate policy
Every eligible candidate, meeting the mandatory requirements 
for being successful in the next grade, has equal opportunities 
to get promoted. To build an internal pipeline across the grades, 
up to leadership positions, our promotion policy is supported by 
a data -driven approach:
 —  We monitor that women’s promotion rates are equal to men’s 
promotion rates at every grade level in each Group entity.
 —  We set a m inimal target for women inflows at Grades E and F.
Equal pay for equal work
It is our conviction that a diverse workforce and an equitable and 
inclusive culture are central to innovation, creativity, and the business 
value we create for our clients. We continuously work towards 
strengthening our policies and practices to present equitable 
opportunities for development, progression, and compensation. 
An important part of this journey is certifying ourselves against 
leading external standards. We put our diversity and inclusion 
policies and practices, including our pay review policies, through a 
voluntary external assessment. We continue to work on enhancing 
and providing a globally consistent approach for pay equity, 
taking into account the impact of skills, experience within grades, 
performance, and location, amongst other factors.
Extended 	and	gender-inclusive 	benefits
We benchmark our parental and benefits policies to the leading 
standards of the markets we operate in. We use these results to 
continuously improve and enhance our policies. Our benefit policies 
ensure equal support to all employee life situations  (e.g., single, 
same -sex partners, parents, or carers, surrogacy and adoptions) 
aligned with local legislation:
 —  in the UK, all parents, regardless of sex or gender, have equal 
access to family leave and are entitled to 52 weeks; 
 —  India has enhanced their adoption and surrogacy leave policy 
and increased paternity leave from 5 to 15 days. 
In collaboration with our social partners and global employee 
networks, we constantly enrich our benefits coverage to adapt 
to our employees’ needs: –  after a successful pilot scheme at the flagship office (Le 
147, Issy les Moulineaux), Capgemini France decided to 
give free access to sustainable menstrual products in 
buildings where Capgemini is the owner or tenant; 
 –  Capgemini Morocco organized a workshop on 
endometriosis, and India held a workshop in March 
on menstrual health and menopause with more than 
950 participants; 
 –  every year, Capgemini UK celebrates Movember to raise 
awareness on men’s specific risks of cancer.
3.  strengthen an inclusive culture, engaging all our 
workforce
Cultivating diversity and building an inclusive workplace does 
not mean simply adding new minority groups to our vision and 
addressing communities separately. As a company, we must keep in 
mind that we are more than a group of individuals or communities.
Sharing the same core values since the creation of Capgemini in 
1967 and pursuing the same purpose, we have more in common 
than our differences. Together, we are setting strong foundations 
for our corporate inclusive culture, engaging all our workforce, 
starting with our leaders.
Inclusive leadership
We firmly believe in leading by example: Mr. Aiman Ezzat, our C eo, 
personally commits  as a signatory to various global charters, 
including the Women’s Empowerment Principles, Valuable 500, 
International Labour Organization (ILO) Global Business and 
Disability Network, Partnership for Racial Justice in Business from 
the World Economic Forum, UN Business Partnership for LGBTQI+ 
Equality, and the Working with Cancer Pledge.
Diversity and Inclusion principles are now integral to the updated 
version of our leadership model. The 4th dimension, associated with 
Talent, is Inclusive leaders . Inclusive leaders are characterized as 
being “passionate about inspiring people and fostering inclusion to attract 
and retain the best talent, and attentive to the needs of our diverse 
people and use empathy and authenticity to build trust with them ”.
Our leaders and managers are thus expected and equipped to 
adopt more inclusive managerial practices:
 —  Unconscious bias and inclusive behaviors have been 
embedded into all flagship leadership training such as O.N.E 
for all new VPs, Pace Setters for Directors, and Connected 
Managers.
 —  More than 12% of Vice-Presidents and Directors, including 
Group Executive Members, volunteered in 2023 to host an 
Inclusion circle , to have an open discussion with their teams 
either on u nconscious bias or the value of Diversity and 
Inclusion in business. More than 16,151  participants took 
part.
Several of our leaders have been recognized by external institutions 
and juries as role models or advocates of diversity and inclusion.
However, creating an inclusive culture cannot be mandated from the 
top down; it must genuinely involve and engage all of our employees. 
Our professionals are provided with various opportunities to voice 
their opinions and contribute.
Education and engagement platforms
We encourage our employees to participate in diversity and 
inclusion awareness and training modules, available from day one 
in the onboarding pathway on our NEXT  learning platform.  In 
this pathway, they can explore our IMPACT  brochure , discovering 
how they can directly contribute to our Corporate Responsibility 
agenda, particularly through volunteering or employee -led initiatives.

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
social: aligned entrepreneurs with protection & respect for all
212
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT4We gather inclusion sentiment through our employee experience 
survey, Pulse , and other feedback. In 2021, we initiated our first 
Group -wide Diversity & Inclusion survey across 47 countries. In 
November 2023, we slightly adapted these initial questions and 
embedded a D&I driver into the regular Pulse questionnaire, 
which will now rolled out every 6 months. Compared to 2021, we 
increased the global participation rate from 38% to 43% and the 
average scoring by 0.2 points, progressing from 8.1 to 8.3, while 
the average scoring across all engagement dimensions is 7.9.
Granular and qualitative analyses of the +24,000 comments 
posted will be conducted in Q1 2024. These insights will inform 
our priorities and initiatives.
Active employee networks
We have multiple employee networks at country level, created 
and managed by groups of volunteers and supported by executive 
sponsors and allies. Three networks operate across the Group: 
Women@Capgemini, OUTfront , and CAPability . Considering all 
sub-chapters or local employee networks, we have a total of 94 groups, 
representing more than 45,000 employees, ranging from core team 
leads to occasional members or allies. These employee networks 
serve as safe spaces for expressing individual concerns, finding 
mutual support, and benefiting from mentoring and networking 
opportunities. They are valuable grassroots initiatives that provide 
feedback to enrich our diversity and inclusion priorities. They also 
play a vital role in connecting us with the broader ecosystem and 
positioning Capgemini as an inclusive employer.
While led voluntarily, these networks must respect a global 
framework  to ensure they promote intersectionality and positive 
inclusion. In 2023, we made significant investments in structuring, 
professionalizing, and empowering these networks by:
 —  developing a governance framework, enforcing rules on 
political neutrality; 
 —  allocating budgets to our three global networks to finance 
actions of their choice; 
 —  enriching a shared resource hub with updated labels and 
visual identity for enhanced visibility, along with templates 
and best practices for increased efficiency; 
 —  conducting, first in the US in April, and then during our first 
global employee summit  in November, training sessions to 
comprehend how best to align the networks’ objectives with 
business objectives; 
 —  celebrating the inaugural cohort of winners of our global en G 
awards  across three categories: Role Model, Outstanding 
Network Leader, and Allyship Champion. The 12  winners 
were selected by an executive panel of Group Executive 
Committee members or Country Board leaders from among 
86 nominations.
Several employee networks revisited their positioning, to enlarge 
their audience and impact, going beyond their natural affiliates:
 —  France and Germany developed the role of Ambassadors; 
 —  the UK released an Allyship toolkit; 
 —  Women@Capgemini  France adopted a new motto “Unis pour 
l’équité”, U nited for Equity, reflecting their openness to all 
genders, and a mixed duo of leaders.external awards for our e mployee n etworks Group
Across the Group, Capgemini Employee Networks Group has been 
recognized for its Diversity and Inclusion efforts:
 —  Capgemini OUTfront Germany has been awarded as the 
network Group of the Year by s tonewall.
 —  Capgemini Sweden women’s network has been nominated 
for the digital Well Awards.
Employee networks are instrumental in amplifying our communication 
campaigns while making them authentic.
Inclusive communication and branding
Our marketing and communications content embodies our 
commitment to more diversity and inclusion.
We run campaigns fighting against sexism, racism, and stereotypes. 
We encourage our employees to share authentic testimonies and 
become the faces of our communication campaigns for celebration 
days. To collect more photos representing the diverse slate of our 
workforce, we organized our first global employee networks photo 
contest.  As we ensured that these photos can be legally used, we 
will gradually incorporate more of them into our communications, 
starting with our Diversity and Inclusion Group policy.
Our diversity and inclusion principles are also reflected in the 
programs we sponsor. As a Global Partner of Women in Rugby 
and Worldwide Partner of the Rugby World Cup 2023, Capgemini 
is committed to supporting female leaders to transform the game 
of rugby. our Women in r ugby leadership program  identifies 
and develops the current and next generation of female leaders 
in the world of rugby, enabling inspirational role models to fulfill 
their potential and create further parity across the game. Each 
year, 12 scholars are granted access to the best learning programs 
from Capgemini University.
external awards and recognitions
Across the Group, Capgemini has received notable recognition for 
its actions as an Inclusive Employer:
 —  Capgemini Brazil, Colombia, India, and Mexico have been 
recognized as a Great Place to Work  by the Great Place to 
Work Institute.
 —  Capgemini Brazil has been awarded the Gold D&I Partner 
Award  from SAP.
 —  Capgemini France, Morocco, Poland, Spain, and Italy have 
been awarded the Top Employer Award  from the Top 
Employer Institute.
 —  Capgemini Germany has been nominated as a Leading 
Employer  from Leading Employer .
 —  Capgemini India has been awarded the Best Diversity & 
Inclusion Award  from the IFCCI Indo-French Chamber 
of Commerce & Industry. Capgemini India has also been 
nominated as Best Corporate Outreach to Promote Diversity, 
Equity & Inclusion in Communities  from Brandon Hall and an 
Exemplar of Inclusion on the 2023 Avtar and Seramount Most 
Inclusive Companies Index.
 —  Capgemini Spain has been listed in the 100 Top Companies 
to Work in s pain  by Actualidad Economica.
 —  Capgemini Sweden has been nominated Best Employer  by 
Universum  and listed in the Young Professionals Attractive 
Index  from Academic Work . Capgemini Sweden has also 
been listed in the Top 10  Trainee program  ranking from 
Karriärföretagen.
 —  Capgemini UK has been listed in the Inclusive Top 50  UK 
Employers  from Inclusive Companies, Top 75 Employers  from 
Social Mobility Index, and Best Workplaces in Tech  by Great 
Place to Work.

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
social: aligned entrepreneurs with protection & respect for all
213
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI44.  Make business and technology transformation an 
opportunity for the broader society and external 
communities
Build an inclusive ecosystem
Our diversity and inclusion policy applies to our Capgemini employees 
as well as freelancers or independent contractors. Local diversity 
and inclusion policies reflecting local regulatory requirements, 
cultural perspectives, and/or local social agreements may exist. 
These policies should be aligned with our Group guidelines to the 
extent feasible. Our contractors and suppliers are also expected 
to meet these standards as reflected in our Supplier Standards of 
Conduct , by promoting diversity, equity, and inclusion.
Recognizing that diverse suppliers contribute positively to the 
communities and clients we serve, our own success, and the industry 
at large, Capgemini has implemented a supplier diversity policy 
in North America. This involves setting goals to increase spend 
with diverse suppliers, active participation in diverse supplier 
organizations, and support for the growth of diverse suppliers in 
our network. As part of our commitment, Capgemini is a corporate 
member of the following supplier diversity -focused organizations:
 —  Canadian Aboriginal and Minority Supplier Council (CAMSC); 
 —  National LGBT Chamber of Commerce (NGLCC); 
 —  National Minority Supplier Development Council (NMSDC) A; 
 —  National Veteran ‑Owned Business Association (NaVOBA); 
 —  WECon nect International Women’s Business Enterprise National 
Council (WBENC); 
As a part of our commitment to higher engagement of diverse 
suppliers, Capgemini actively monitors our diverse supplier spend 
and establishes goals to maintain and improve it. We uphold a 
database of our suppliers’ diversity certifications. Capgemini tracks 
diverse spending including, but not limited to women -owned, 
minority -owned, LGBT+ owned, all classifications of veteran -owned, 
disabled -owned, and small businesses. Procurement is continually 
reevaluating our goals to continue the growth of our supplier 
diversity program.
Develop thought leadership and advocate for an inclusive 
technology
Our publications and participation in courses or conferences are for 
us a chance to influence the debate around Diversity and Inclusion 
with a view to promoting inclusive behaviors among existing and 
future leaders.
In December 2022, we released our quarterly conversation report 
on the Future of Work , in which we highlight the power and value 
of diverse teams and the potential of minority groups as untapped 
sources of talent.
In 2023, we contributed to two new reports:
 —  “A whole new ball game ”, demonstrating how technology 
could have a positive impact on inclusion on and off the pitch; 
 —  “A world in Balance ”, released during COP 28, highlights the 
rising focus on social dimensions, in a broader conception 
of sustainability, to ensure a greener and more inclusive 
transition.We had the opportunity to showcase our vision of inclusion at 
various international forums, including the World Economic 
Forum, the UN Global Compact in Paris and Dubai, the ILO annual 
conference in Geneva, and the Viva Tech Summit in Paris. These 
forums enable us to engage in conversations with our clients, 
partners, and employees, positioning Diversity and Inclusion as 
a business imperative. Our insights and internal learnings are 
increasingly leveraged:
 —  by our investors’ teams, to give tangible illustrations of our 
ESG commitments; 
 —  by our sales and account managers’ teams, to address 
the expectations of our clients to work with responsible 
partners, likely to contribute to their own transformation 
roadmap towards more sustainable and positive futures.
Grow future digital talent to access a better future
As a digital company, we have a responsibility to build the skills 
of tomorrow. We play our part in educating future leaders on 
sustainability. The Capgemini group D&I team was the business 
partner of a master’s course in HEC, on Diversity and Inclusion, in 
February and March 2023.
With all these achievements, Capgemini continued to raise the bar 
on Diversity and Inclusion in 2023. We are dedicated to advancing 
and accelerating our efforts in 2024 to make Capgemini a magnet for 
diverse talent and foster an inclusive and engaging work environment 
where people of all backgrounds can shape the future they want 
and create distinctive value for our clients, partners, and society.
b)  Main achievements in 2023
1.  Achieving more gender parity
More women in the workforce
60%80%
40%
20%
Women Men2021 2022 202361.2%
38.8%62.2%
37.8%64.2%
35.8%
As we steadily progress toward our objective of reaching 40% 
of women in our global workforce, our pace has encountered a 
slight deceleration. After an annual average gain of +2 points 
since 2017, we progressed by 1 point in 2023. This remains a solid 
performance, considering:
 —  the contraction in our external hiring, in stark contrast to 
the post-Covid period where we had to undertake massive 
recruitment amid a global economic restart; 
 —  the trends in the digital sector, where key players, including 
our direct competitors, experienced a flattening or slight 
decrease in their women’s representation in 2022.

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
social: aligned entrepreneurs with protection & respect for all
214
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT4Except for the US, where we have been affected by a less favorable 
business environment, all other countries are making strides:
 —  In Poland and China, we maintain a position above gender 
parity.
 —  India, Morocco, and our consulting branch Invent, stand 
above 40%.
 —  The majority of our core countries have now surpassed the 
standard threshold of 30%, including France, UK, Germany, 
Spain, Italy, Sweden, Brazil, Australia, and Canada, as well as 
all our Global business lines. —  In the Netherlands, despite facing a limited local talent pool 
for Digital profiles, we have witnessed significant progress, 
nearly re aching the 25% mark.
This continuous growth is supported by solid fundamentals:
 —  a noteworthy 40.4% of our recruitment across the Group 
comprises women; 
 —  women attrition remains controlled, standing below 10% 
at managerial levels (from grade D to F), and consistently 
lower than that of men across all grades, with an average gap 
exceeding 1%; 
 —  we promote more women as 42.2% of women were promoted 
versus  37.8% women present at the start of the year.
 Metric 2021 2022 2023 2025 
target
Promoting gender parity in the Group % of women in the workforce 35.8% 37.8% 38.8% √ 40.0%
Scope: Capgemini group.
√ Data identified in these tables by a √ has been reviewed by Mazars with a reasonable level of assurance.
More	women	in	client -facing,	revenue -producing,	  
and stem roles
While there traditionally exists a higher percentage of women than 
men in Business Services (54.8%) and Shared Services (68.8%), we 
place special emphasis on attracting and nurturing more women 
in the core functions of our business:
 —  women make up 37.8% of our revenue -producing workforce, 
and 30.4% have direct sales roles;  —  women’s representation in Consulting, Financial Services, 
and starting this year in Insights and Data, exceeds the Group 
average; 
 —  regarding IT and digital roles, women occupy 35.7% % of 
STEM-related positions.
All indicators showing an upward trend.
 Metrics 2021 2022 2023 
Attracting and growing more women in IT % of women in revenue generating functions 34.9% 37.0% 37.8% 
% of women in STEM related positions 32.8% 35.0% 35.7% 
Scope: Capgemini group.
 Metric 2021 2022 2023 
Promoting gender parity in management 
teams% of women in management positions in revenue 
generating functions17.4% 18.2% 27.2% 
Scope: Capgemini group.
More women in managerial and top leadership roles
For the sustainability of our pyramid, it is important to grow a 
strong women’s pipeline from within and elevate more women 
to managerial and leadership roles.
In 2023, we took significant steps in this regard by strengthening 
our KPIs in that direction: enhancing the remuneration scheme for 
our Vice Presidents, we extended the objective of achieving 30% 
women inflow at grade E, in addition to grade F. This means that 
VPs are now incentivized to help maintain at least 30% women in 
each recruitment or promotion at grade E and F levels.In 2023, we achieved a women’s inflow of 31.2% at grade F and 
an even higher 32.3% at grade e .
These positive strides have significantly reshaped our organizational 
pyramid, with women now representing more than 20% at every 
level and exceeding 30% at grade C, our managerial entry level. 
Our trajectory positions us favorably to meet our ESG commitment 
of achieving a minimum of 30% women in executive leadership 
positions, with an average annual progression of 2%.
 Metrics 2021 2022 2023 
Building a sustainable talent pipeline from 
within% of women in entry level positions 45.9% 47.1% 47.9% 
% of women in junior management positions 26.0% 27.9% 29.3% 
Scope: Capgemini group.

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
social: aligned entrepreneurs with protection & respect for all
215
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI4 Metrics 2021 2022 2023 2025 
target
Promoting gender parity in  
management teams% of women in Executive leadership 
positions22.4% 24.4% 26.2% √ 30.0%
% of women in the Executive 
Committee27.6% 27.6% 28.9% √ 30.0%
% of women among new Vice-
Presidents (internal promotions and 
external hiring)29.4% 31.4% 31.2% Above 
30%
% of women in all management 
positions (including junior, middle and 
top management positions) 27.2% 28.7%  
Scope: Capgemini group.
√ Data identified in these tables by a √ has been reviewed by Mazars with a reasonable level of assurance.
We have broadened our vision of diversity beyond gender and 
embraced different profiles. Talent is unique to each individual, 
but we believe in the power of diverse teams to create distinctive 
value for our clients.
2.  supporting inclusion of people with disability in the 
workplace
Geographical breakdown of employees with disabilities in 
2023
region/ scope 2022 2023 
north America 414 359 
united Kingdom and Ireland 1,111 1,161 
nordic countries 2 0 
Benelux 25 26 
Central e urope and e astern e urope 324 342 
France 1,035 1,112 
southern e urope 260 403 
Asia ‑Pacific 584 479 
Latin America 89 133 
Middle e ast and Africa 0 0 
TOTAL 3,844 4,015 
Scope: Capgemini group.
After a rise of 46% between 2020 and 2022, the representation 
of people officially recognized with a disability, impairment or 
neurodivergence, has increased by 4.4% in 2023. This progression 
reflects our efforts in recruiting more of these talents, adapting 
our job ads and interview processes, and in encouraging more of 
our existing employees to self -declare. We recommend them to 
go through this administrative recognition process so that they 
can be better supported and even equipped to feel fully included 
in the workplace.
4315  Collective bargaining coverage and social 
dialogue (policies, actions and main 
achievements in 2023)
[GRI 2 -30]; [GRI 402 -1]; [GRI 407 -1]
a)  Maintain a constructive employee dialog and labor relations
We commit to maintaining a constructive employee dialog and 
labor relations at all levels of the organization, both locally and 
globally. As we are convinced that employee dialog is a powerful 
tool to move forward, while allowing safe and conflict -free change, we have implemented an organization and tools enabling a strong 
dialog with employees and their representatives at all levels of 
the organization.
Group Employee Relations Policy
We adopted an Employee Relations Policy in November 2023. The 
following 3 fundamental principles form the backbone of our policy:
 —  Capgemini is strongly committed to creating and maintaining 
a constructive and respectful social dialog; 
 —  Capgemini promotes an ongoing, high -quality dialog for the 
benefit of the Company and its employees; 
 —  Capgemini is driven by the belief that business and growth 
go hand in hand with constructive and mature dialog.
Through our Employee Relations Policy, we ensure that our 
fundamental principles are applied throughout the Group.
We are committed to remaining attentive, both internally and 
externally, to all developments that could improve our practices. 
To this end, the Company encourages participation in internal and 
external communities, professional associations, etc. to generate 
ideas that will help develop our business and improve the working 
conditions of our employees.
For instance, the Capgemini group Employee Relations Department:
 —  has created and managed a global community of employee 
relations specialists present in our various countries; 
 —  has joined the Global Deal, an international body made up 
of governments, major companies and trade unions. The 
aim of the Global Deal partnership is to benefit from, and 
contribute to, a platform that highlights the value of social 
dialog and strengthens existing co -operation structures.
We also encourage the reporting of key information, issues and 
problems in countries from the perspective of International 
Works Council (IWC) delegates during our monthly IWC one -day 
meetings. As a mirror image, we organize monthly meetings with 
our community of employee relations specialists and HRDs in our 
different countries. These ongoing exchanges and cross -views allow 
a better understanding of local specificities, mutual learning, sharing 
of best practices and contribute to the proper implementation of 
our employee relations policy.
Employee representatives on the Board of Directors
Since 2016 and ahead of the statutory requirements in force at that 
time, two Directors representing employees have been appointed 
to the Board of Directors. One Board member was designated by 
the French unions while the second was elected by the International 
Works Council (IWC) from among its statutory members. The 
latter was already invited by the Company Chairman and CEO to 
sit on the Board and on the Compensation Committee from 2015.

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
social: aligned entrepreneurs with protection & respect for all
216
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT4Labor relations at Group level: International Works Council 
(IWC)
The International Works Council (IWC) was first set up in 2001 
ahead of European regulations, and then extended to other Group 
regions. It aims to put forward employees’ interests to management 
and is kept informed of management plans and projects and their 
impacts on employees. The IWC aspires to:
 —  be an advisory body to Group Management on employee 
matters; 
 —  exercise positive influence; 
 —  foster cooperation among employees and different parts of 
the Group; and
 —  contribute to making Capgemini an inspiring environment 
for all.
Therefore, prior to the implementation of significant operational 
changes that could substantially affect its employees (at least 
within the European Economic Area, in accordance with EU Council 
Directive 2001/86/EC, and the Agreement signed on April 23, 2021), 
Capgemini is committed to informing and/or consulting them. 
IWC has a maximum of seventy members in total and 99% of 
Capgemini group is represented in the IWC (except in Europe with 
Serbia, Greece, Ukraine and Switzerland). The Group Management 
representative is the Chairman of the IWC, who acts in accordance 
with the Group’s decisions and strategies. Statutory members 
of the IWC are delegated by the countries participating in the 
European Agreement. On top of the European Economic Area, four 
regions (Latin America, North America, Asia-Pacific and Africa) and 
two countries (UK and India) are represented. These six regions 
and countries are Guest Members and have a consultative voice. 
Employees are represented by country delegates and a permanent 
body called the IWC Bureau which is composed of ten delegates: four 
are allocated to the top four European countries, five are allocated 
to all European countries except the four top -sized countries and 
one additional seat is allocated to the country representing at 
least 30% of the Group’s workforce within the European Economic 
Area. The CEO attends the IWC meeting at least once a year, and 
the Group Executive Board members are regularly invited for open 
discussions with IWC members.
The International Works Council has four annual meetings (February, 
June, October and December) chaired by the Group Head of 
Employee Relations, addressing general and employee matters. 
The first and third annual meetings are virtual. The first meeting is 
held after the Group kick -off to quickly inform the IWC delegates 
of organizational changes and the annual strategic roadmap. 
To ensure an ongoing dialog, the IWC Bureau meets monthly in 
addition to the 4 plenary meetings.
Meetings of the International Works Council are held to discuss 
Capgemini group strategies on human resources management, 
business development and market positioning. Additionally, the 
International Works Council or its Bureau are consulted when a 
transnational event:
 —  affects employees’ interests in at least two countries of 
the European Economic Area to a considerable extent, 
particularly in the event of a relocation, the closure of 
establishments or collective redundancies; 
 —  relates to the Group structure and has important 
consequences on the workforce or the Group’s organization 
in Europe.
Depending on the complexity and the implication of the subject 
matters dealt with, the International Works Council needs 
sufficient time during the consultation process to be able to give 
an informed opinion when required. In principle, the consultation 
takes place within a maximum period of 4 weeks starting from the 
delivery of useful information to the delegates. This applicable 
consultation lead -time (within the limit of 4 or 2 weeks) will be 
agreed by the Secretary and the Chairperson, taking into account 
the complexity of the subject matter and the expected timeline 
to ensure proper dialog and exchanges. The IWC, or its Bureau, is informed or consulted before or in parallel with the information 
and consultation procedures carried out at local level.
100% of the global workforce is covered by Group policies, which 
are introduced through the IWC (e.g., New Normal, Company 
car, Employee Relations Policy, etc.), but are then applied on a 
country -by-country basis according to local regulations and laws.
Labor relations and employee dialog at local level
Country employee representatives and Works Councils are strategic 
partners in all organizational and operational transformations. This 
is reflected at the operational level in the countries, where unions, 
Work Councils and social representatives are in a continuous dialog 
with Capgemini business leadership and HR. Labor agreements 
signed in cooperation with both parties contribute to a better, 
safer and healthier work environment for all employees. Capgemini 
acknowledges that collective and enterprise agreements are an 
opportunity to secure a healthy and transparent social dialog, 
as well as concrete advancements in labor conditions and work 
environment.
b)  Main achievements in 2023
In 2023, many new or renewed collective agreements were signed 
and consultations were held.
Overall, 32% of the global workforce is covered by bargaining 
agreements, which represents around 85% of the workforce in 
Europe (including UK).
At Group Level,
 —  Five IWC plenary sessions and eleven Bureau meetings were 
held.
 —  Capgemini adopted an Employee Relations Policy in 
November  2023. Capgemini’s view of employee relations is 
ambitious, and this policy is an opportunity to confirm our 
approach and share it with all our employees and the market. 
The Group’s Employee Relations policy ensures that our 
fundamental principles are applied throughout the Group. 
This policy is linked to all other social policies such as our 
Human Rights policy and the Code of Business Ethics.
 —  The publication of this policy was accompanied by membership 
of th e Global Deal in December 2023, an international body 
made up of governments, major companies and trade 
unions. The Global Deal was developed in cooperation 
with the International Labour Organization (ILO) and the 
Organization for Economic Co -operation and Development 
(OECD) as founding partners. Membership enables us to 
benefit from the various partners’ experiences to contribute 
actively to exchanges and highlight the value of social dialog 
inside the Global Deal. Our policy and membership will help 
to promote social dialog (both internally and externally).
At local level, here are some examples of our agreements, 
consultations and constant listening:
In France, 2023 was marked by the organization of professional 
elections in the Capgemini Economic and Social Unit (UES), which has 
around 30,000 employees. These elections required the negotiation 
of numerous agreements with the trade unions so that they could 
take place under good conditions. At the end of the first round, 
six trade unions became representative, one more than in the 
previous term of office. Among the most important negotiations 
were the agreement on salary increases, the amendment on trade 
union communication (which gives new rights and opportunities) 
and the new agreement on disability. Other projects discussed 
with local works councils included real estate and organizational 
development projects and the voluntary transfer of employment 
contracts for certain support functions from the former Altran to 
Capgemini Technology Services. Eleven agreements were signed. 
We also conducted several negotiations at ER&D level, which 
has around 8,000 employees. Eight agreements were signed, 
including agreements on exceptional leave and long -service leave, 
profit -sharing, social dialog and professional elections.

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
social: aligned entrepreneurs with protection & respect for all
217
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI4In 2020, Capgemini also renewed its agreement with the French 
Ministry of the Armed Forces to support reserve activities. Capgemini 
undertakes to support the military reserve policy by granting its 
employees who are operational reservists special facilities to 
enable them to carry out their periods of reserve activity, and 
also to establish a climate of trust, based on dialogue, between 
Capgemini and the Ministry of the Armed Forces.
In India we had certain policy enhancements one of which is the 
Enhanced leave policy to include surrogacy, adoption, paternity, 
and gender affirmation surgery leave. We Introduced FlexAbroad 
Policy to enable our colleagues to work from another country. 
From an employee wellness perspective, now we have mental 
health covered under the group insurance policy, along with this 
we launched an Elder Care Program offering exclusive discounts for 
Capgemini colleagues. We Introduced a personalized application 
for our employees to address stress, alleviate anxiety, and embrace 
wellness. Enhanced health check -up program for Grade C and 
above. We upgraded the counselling program basis feedback 
received from employees via a confidential survey. From a social 
perspective, Capgemini in India has created a digitally enabled 
society with its Digital Academy  initiatives. For Digital Literacy  we 
supported government’s initiative of Atal Tinkering Labs to enable 
fostering of creativity and design thinking among school children. 
We have launched MA ATR, a digital solution developed by pro -bono 
efforts to help Mothers, Frontline workers, and new -born babies 
towards democratized access to health care. WeKare which is 
employee -driven initiative, has partnered with several organizations 
focusing on employability, and environmental protection.
Capgemini India has received numerous external recognitions in 
the year 2023.
 —  At the Brandon Hall HCM Excellence Awards Capgemini in 
India:
 –  won Gold under the Best Corporate Outreach to Promote 
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion; 
 –  won silver for Best Strategy for Corporate Citizenship; 
 –  won silver for Best Advance in Competencies and Skill 
Development; 
 –  won bronze under Best New Hire Onboarding Program; 
 —  In GPTW, Capgemini in India has been:
 –  certified as a Great workplace; 
 –  accredited for its Inclusive Practices™; 
 –  recognized as Top 10  India’s Best Workplaces™ for 
Women; 
 –  recognized as Top 10  Best workplaces in Health & 
Wellness; 
 –  won Gold in Diversity & Inclusion (D&I) and Silver in 
Learning categories at BW People HR Excellence Awards;
 –  winner in Best Employer for Women and 1st Runner up in 
Best Employer for Policies on D&I at ASSOCHAM’s 4th D&I 
Excellence Awards 2023; 
 –  awarded the “Best CSR project for Digital Citizenship” at 
the IFCCI Conclave and Awards 2022.In Brazil, we conducted 15 annual salary negotiations with 15 different 
unions due to our presence throughout the country. Capgemini 
has actively participated in the analysis of the main wage and social 
negotiation agendas with the trade unions of each city and state, 
and we focus mainly on 5 major regions, São Paulo, Salvador, Rio de 
Janeiro, Federal District and Araraquara. In addition to monitoring 
the agreements and/or collective agreements signed as part of the 
agendas common to all companies in each segment, Capgemini 
signed 2 other agreements focused on improving working time 
conditions for our employees, 6 other profit -sharing agreements 
for our employees, and 2 flexibility agreements on holiday dates. 
The country has a culture of trade union representation which 
is necessary for our employees and the action of trade union 
relations is important and necessary to maintain a professional 
and respectful environment between the parties, always keeping 
social dialog active. We promote our code of ethics and respect 
the wishes of employees who want to subscribe and contribute 
to their union representative. A monthly contribution is deducted 
from the employee’s salary for this membership, with their formal 
acceptance. We currently have around 6% of employees who are 
members.
In Morocco, employee representatives are elected by employees 
in both Casablanca and Rabat. The employee representatives are 
members of the Works Council as well as the Safety and Health 
Committee. Regular meetings (monthly & quarterly) are held with 
employee representatives to discuss employee concerns and share Local 
and Group News and processes. In 2023, employee representatives 
were consulted, for example, on all the implementation of the new 
performance management approach.
In Romania, employee representatives are involved in actions 
concerning employees (such as disciplinary actions/individual 
dismissals) and are informed about changes concerning the 
organization. Employee representatives were successfully elected 
at the end of 2023 – 5 employees representing all the Business 
Lines present in Romania. One employee representative is also a 
member of the IWC.
In Portugal, a collective agreement is in force between Capgemini 
and an external professional association (IT sector). This agreement 
has established several measures in terms of remuneration and 
benefits, such as the minimum wage as a base and the number 
of days of leave, and its implementation is ensured by the local 
Human Resources team. It was also audited by the national ‘Working 
Conditions Authority’ with full compliance. As a people -oriented 
company, there is an employee social listening plan, with feedback 
actions on many topics, such as ‘ MeetUp sessions’, Pulse follow -up 
meetings with all employees (organized by unit or segment), formal 
consultations on aspects such as Health and Safety conditions and 
work schedule scenarios. In addition, the two Capgemini Portugal 
employees who are part of the IWC also carry out several follow -up 
actions on aspects such as diversity and inclusion, gender pay 
equity, communication, the working environment and well -being.

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
social: aligned entrepreneurs with protection & respect for all
218
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT4In Belgium, the main achievement for 2023 was to successfully 
conclude negotiations to become a single technical unit for the 2024 
social elections, which will allow us to have a single Works Council 
and a single safety and prevention committee as opposed to the 
current three unit separation. Other highlights for 2023 include 
collective agreements on the drug and alcohol policy, the right to 
disconnect and new work rules. Furthermore, in collaboration with 
our social partners, we have set up an E.V car policy in Belgium.
In Italy, 3 agreements were signed on flexible working (Metalworking, 
Trade and Credit). In addition, a specific agreement was signed in the 
metalworking sector for the application of a different treatment 
for supplementary health benefits compared with the national 
treatment. Numerous trade union meetings were held on various 
issues, in particular:
 —  annual calendar of holidays; 
 —  shuttle transport for employees in the Rome offices; 
 —  information on business trends and the most relevant staff  
indicators; 
 —  information on changes in the Company’s performance 
bonuses and training plans.
In Finland, we successfully negotiated the renewal of our 
company -specific collective agreement in the autumn of 2023 
(working conditions, working time and remuneration, flexible 
working, etc.), which required close cooperation with the local 
Works Council (5 primary members plus substitutes) and Capgemini.
In Poland, employee representatives were consulted on changes 
to labor and remuneration regulations, the implementation of 
new regulations on teleworking and regulations relating to the 
Social Fund. All these actions were required by law. Beyond the law, 
Capgemini Poland continues to organize regular quarterly meetings 
between the four IWC representatives and the Country Management 
Board. IWC members and employee representatives have also 
been regularly informed of the roll -out of the HR Transformation 
Program in Poland to ensure transparency and program’s proper 
implementation within the organization.
In the UK, where required by law, Capgemini negotiates pay 
for union members and has framework agreements with three 
unions. Ten specific collective bargaining agreements are in place 
for groups of employees under the Transfer of Undertakings 
(Protection of Employment) regulations 2006 (TUPE). In 2023, 
we successfully held an election for our Capgemini Works Council 
(CWC) which resulted in 7 new representatives being elected. 
The CWC was fully consulted and reviewed the following policy 
updates before launch; amalgamation and enhanced offerings of 
2 new family -friendly policies (combination of maternity, paternity, 
adoption, surrogacy and shared parental leave) and the Out of 
Hours Policy which saw increased rates for shift payments. These 
policies were positively received by employees and were supportive 
of our drive to be competitive in the market. We also successfully 
launched a Health and Well -being hub, which offers a wide range of 
support mechanisms accessible to all UK employees. This received 
very positive feedback.
In Germany, more than 90 collective agreements with works councils 
have been concluded at local and central level. The agreements 
concluded in 2023 mainly concern the implementation of IT tools, 
employment conditions (in particular pay and benefits issues), Health 
and Safety issues (e.g. assessment of psychological strain) and office 
moves/environments, but also transformation issues related to the new performance process, the reorganization of 2 major entities 
(C&CA and I&D) and the integration of the Braincourt company. 
The agreements are published on the intranet in accordance with 
local legal requirements. In 2023, ER&D (former Altran entities) 
was still focusing on agreements relating to the implementation 
of technical facilities (IT) and remuneration.
In Denmark, the Works Council has 3 members, 2 of whom are also 
members of the IWC. The Works Council meets every three months 
and Capgemini can organize ad hoc  meetings or e -mail exchanges 
to maintain a permanent link. Social dialog has achieved notable 
results in key areas, including the integration of new colleagues 
(people transfer), global IT initiatives, mandatory Group training 
and the Group’s transformation programs.
In the US and Canada, Capgemini continues to prioritize inclusivity 
and be a family -friendly organization. It has launched enhanced 
benefits supporting employees, e.g.: it improved paid parental 
leave to give secondary caregivers two weeks of full salary and 
removed the one year waiting requirement for benefits eligibility; 
it created a benefits insights guide to transitioning to support 
LGBTQ colleagues, it expanded fertility benefits to cover $15,000 in 
surrogacy or cryopreservation costs and egg freezing, it launched 
additional back up care services, and it started a new partnership 
with Peppy Health to support women in menopause or dealing 
with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) or endometriosis. In 
continued support of a diverse and inclusive workplace, we launched 
leadership PACT for Future Shapers, a retention program for over 
120 high -performing managers and Inclusive Executive Sponsorship 
training for Vice Presidents. We achieved a 98% retention for 
the first two cohorts, one year after the program launched. Our 
Employee Resource Groups saw a 3% increase in participation in 
2023 and active ERG members have a 7% higher retention rate 
than those who are not involved.
In Sweden, we have a very well -functioning collaboration with the 
unions (two different unions and 8 local union clubs, 11 members). 
The relationship with our unions is very good and transparency 
is high. Throughout the year, we have consulted and negotiated 
every month about different topics such as new IT Tools, Health 
and Safety, Performance management (Pxcell), new managers, new 
CEO, local changes in organizations, and re -locations of offices.
4316  Non‑employees in the workforce
We define Non-Employees as individuals contracted through an 
intermediate company, delivering services for Capgemini on a 
Time & Material basis. This definition encompasses independent 
contractors, as well as some employees from small, medium 
and large companies, all managed through our service provider 
management system called VMS ‘Vendor Management System’. 
The same population also matches the ‘own workforce’ definition 
under the requirements of the European Sustainability Reporting 
Standards as part of the Corporate Sustainability Reporting 
Directive (CSRD).
As part of our Duty of Care, we recognize and identify the risks 
specifically associated with this workforce. Those risks include 
but are not limited to harassment, discrimination, poor working 
conditions, failure to comply with labor law, data protection 
incidents, etc. They can either manifest within Capgemini or 
through our suppliers.

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
social: aligned entrepreneurs with protection & respect for all
219
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI4To understand and assess the materiality of these risks, we are 
currently implementing a monitoring strategy. Beginning in 2024, 
the strategy will involve voluntary surveys sent to Non-Employees 
after the end of their engagement with Capgemini. Questions will 
address their overall satisfaction of their relationship with Capgemini 
and focus on specific risk areas. Results will be consolidated and 
analyzed annually, with recurring and significant observations 
noted for further action.
In addition to monitoring, a new Freelancers Group Policy is 
scheduled to be released in 2024. This policy provides a framework 
for setting consistent rules regarding the Non-Employee workers 
at Capgemini so that:
 —  the use of this workforce segment is compliant with 
applicable regulations and risk -mitigated; 
 —  all parties have clarity over their respective role and 
responsibilities; 
 —  we define the unique frictionless experience we want to 
offer to non -employee workers.
This policy will cover various aspects of the Non-Employee lifecycle 
journey, including sourcing and staffing, contractualization rules, 
differentiation from permanent staff, ensuring ethical and compliance 
awareness, and Engagement Manager training.
4317  Health & Safety and well‑being at work 
(policies, actions and main achievements in 
2023)
[GRI 403 -1]; [GRI 403 -2]; [GRI 403 -3]; [GRI 403 -4]; [GRI 403 -5];  
[GRI 403 -6]; [GRI 403 -7]
The health, safety and well -being of Capgemini employees and 
subcontractors are of the upmost importance to us and are 
constantly monitored, developed, and supported by our procedures 
and frameworks. Similarly, the Group’s ability to adapt quickly to 
changes to ensure business continuity is a priority.
a)  Create a safe, caring, and flexible work environment
1.  health & s afety at work
Our constant and continuous work to update and communicate our 
policies and guidelines to our people is a top priority to support 
education and create awareness within Capgemini. Health and 
Safety information is provided to all employees and regular training 
sessions are promoted and conducted to prepare employees to 
react in the event of an incident. Employees who have received first 
aid and emergency training are thus able to provide an adequate 
response in the event of an emergency. Third -party support is 
offered for work -life balance, disability, and rehabilitation, as well 
as during business travel.
The following is an overview of the scope of our standard Health 
and Safety policies, which provide information, guidelines, and 
training for all employees:
 —  Health & Safety in our offices; 
 —  Health & Safety guidance during work from home; 
 —  Health & Safety on external sites; 
 —  handling of accidents and emergencies; 
 —  handling of hazardous substances (also part of our 
Environmental Management System); 
 —  guideline s and training for safe travel; 
 —  initiatives to promote a healthy lifestyle and mental health; 
 —  training, videos, and information on ergonomics; —  guidelines for sickness and rehabilitation; and
 —  guidelines for employees with disabilities.
In all countries, we pay special attention to national legislation and 
directives, especially in times of pandemic. A regular risk assessment 
is organized according to national standards and requirements, with 
special focus on psychosocial, health and building -related risks.
To reflect the growing importance of Health & Safety, we have 
implemented ISO 45001 certified Occupational Health & Safety 
Management Systems in several countries (e.g. India, Germany, 
Netherlands, Italy). 59% of the global headcount is therefore 
covered by the ISO 45001 certification. Due to the growing demand 
for both Health & Safety as well as certifications, we expect to 
continuously increase the number of certified countries.
Health & Safety at Capgemini
As in the previous year, Capgemini group continued to support and 
deliver health risk awareness in 2023. Based on experience from the 
additional “Covid protocols”, some key actions were maintained. 
Capgemini continued to provide ongoing and consistent support 
to employees.
In the course of 2023,
 —  hand gel remains a standard equipment for additional hand 
hygiene; 
 —  medical masks are available on site, as well as Covid tests in 
some countries; 
 —  additional cleaning of highly frequented touchpoints is in 
place (e.g. door handles); 
 —  colleagues who feel unwell or show even slight symptoms of 
cold are encouraged not to go to the office; and
 —  in addition to the above measures, we continued to enable 
an effective work -from -home system for our colleagues 
across the globe.
Health & Safety at non ‑Capgemini sites
Many of our colleagues regularly work at client, subcontractor’ or 
other non-Capgemini sites. To accommodate the growing need 
for flexibility at work, it is important to extend the coverage of 
our Health and Safety information to external premises, such as 
trains, planes, homes and hotels.
At client sites, we ensure that our employees are aware of and 
comply with the health, safety and emergency rules in effect. 
Employees could continue their flexible work models in accordance 
with client and project needs, enabling us to actively meet our Duty 
of Care to our people. We continue our close collaboration with 
clients and support employees with equipment, information and 
WFH guidelines to successfully apply this model.
Health,	Safety	and	security	when	travelling	in	medium	and	
high‑risk countries
Medium and high -risk countries are identified with the support of 
external and independent health, safety and security providers.
The Group is committed to operating in countries where people 
security and safety risks are limited.
Nevertheless, for some clients and specific engagements, employees 
may be required to travel to geopolitically unstable countries, 
or dangerous geographical areas, with potential physical risks 
(terrorist attacks, popular uprising, civil wars, acts of banditry) or 
to countries facing Health and Safety issues (disease, infection, 
transportation accidents, etc.) from which we must protect them 
as their employer.

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
social: aligned entrepreneurs with protection & respect for all
220
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT4Moreover, during business travel, people can also be impacted 
by serious natural disasters or environmental/climatic events 
(earthquake, hurricane, flooding, etc.).
They all have the potential to impact their physical integrity while 
travelling.
To prevent risks and minimize their impact, we have implemented 
the following policies:
 —  a specific approval procedure for travel in “medium/high” risk 
countries with strict rules (the “Snapshot process”); 
 —  employees must carry a mobile phone for international calls 
and report the number to the Group security unit; 
 —  tracking of reservations to know when and where employees 
are travelling, using a tool that allows us to contact them 
24/7, by email, SMS, or phone; 
 —  monitoring of serious events (terrorist attacks, flooding, civil 
unrest, strikes, etc.) that can affect international travelers as 
well as local employees in a specific area; 
 —  extension of the working hours of the Group Security Center 
and the setup of a 24/7 service; 
 —  deployment of a mobile application for employees to 
geolocate themselves and send emergency messages if 
needed; 
 —  geolocation made mandatory four times a day (or more) for 
employees traveling to- some specific countries and missions; 
 —  safety training made mandatory for all travelers; 
 —  a BTA (Business Travel Assistance) policy that covers all 
emergencies worldwide was provided in addition to a 
24/7 call center for emergencies (International SOS). 
Moreover, Travel Tracker and Mass Communication Tools are 
implemented to allow us to better track and help travelers and 
local employees when a serious incident happens.
Most of the interventions by our assistance provider are for 
information and advisory purposes. Only a few of them involve 
medical assistance.
Permanent watch and support provided to colleagues 
during	natural	hazards	and	other	serious	events	(fires	in	
buildings,	floods, etc.)
More generally speaking in support to the Chief Security Officers 
network, Group monitors all natural hazards arising where we have 
employees. We are present on the side of employees affected.
Support	provided	to	Ukrainian	colleagues	from	a	health,	
safety and security standpoint in the context of the 
Ukrainian crisis
Since February 24, 2022, the Group has provided support to Ukrainian 
colleagues and their families. From the beginning of 2023, the 
crisis mode (put in place at end of 2021) was deactivated but a 
close monitoring has been put in place and meetings are regularly 
conducted between the Group crisis coordination team and our 
Ukrainian colleagues to re -assess the health, security and safety 
risks they could face and adapt crisis response options accordingly 
in case the situation deteriorates. Moreover, assistance and support 
are provided on a needs basis, and a close link is ensured between 
the Group and local management.Support provided to Moroccan colleagues during the 
September 8th,	2023,	earthquake
After the September 8th, 2023, earthquake in Morocco, Capgemini 
Morocco and the Group came together – within a crisis management 
team – to (1) contact all our employees based in Morocco, our 
travelers and our colleagues doing Flex Abroad, (2) check their 
state of health and (3) provide help and assistance when needed. 
Thanks to Capgemini Morocco and the Group action, some people 
having lost their house have been accommodated, medical 
treatments have been provided and food and water have been 
supplied. Financial support has also been provided for those who 
have suffered heavy damages.
2.  Country specific policies
Focus on India
The OH&S (Occupational Health & Safety) program at Capgemini 
India encompasses a wide network of stakeholders: employees, 
suppliers, support staff and clients. The organization successfully 
completed a 2nd surveillance audit for ISO 45001:2018 and has been 
recommended for certification.
Capgemini India’s H&S policy has been defined with the Governance 
Board, to which the India Corporate Real Estate Services  (ICRES) Health 
Safety and Environment (HSE) team reports on a periodic basis. 
The policy includes: on -site medical care and on -demand remote 
medical support; a 24x7 medical helpline, including for employee 
family members; 24x7 EAP emotional support to employees and 
their families; ergonomic awareness sessions for all employees; 
pandemic management; identification of Emergency Response 
Team (ERT) members for every location.
India’s Health & Safety policy intends to comply with the relevant 
legal and other requirements applicable to Occupational Health and 
Safety and provide appropriate guidance, training and awareness 
to create a safe environment at the workplace – adopting an agile 
health & wellness risk management approach focusing on the 
promotion and protection of Employee and Family well -being.
A hazard identification and risk assessment exercise is carried out 
on an ongoing basis, helping us identify new risks and opportunities 
proactively, and take necessary actions for continual improvement. 
Appropriate control measures are adopted/modified, with defined 
and frequent monitoring, when a specific hazard is identified.
Focus on the Netherlands
The Netherlands has been still ISO 45001 certified, as in previous 
years which means that ongoing focus was placed on the Health 
& Safety Policy and the implementation of activities that support 
the health, safety and well -being of employees, contractors and 
visitors to our sites.
As part of the implementation of the flexible work policy, a 
mandatory Health & Safety e -learning has been implemented. The 
training consists of several short (1 -3 minutes) videos on the most 
relevant topics: ergonomics, psychosocial health, well -being and 
safety in the workplace. The training was launched in September 
for all Capgemini employees and every month new employees are 
invited to complete it. An 80% correct score on the final test and 
a certificate conclude the training. Since its launch in 2022, more 
than 3,650 colleagues have completed this training.

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
social: aligned entrepreneurs with protection & respect for all
221
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI4According to Dutch law, we must ensure an ergonomic workplace 
at home since working from home is business as usual. To this 
extent, Capgemini and Sogeti in the Netherlands developed a 
portal where employees can order both a sit/stand work desk as 
well as an office chair that meets Dutch requirements. Employees 
borrow the equipment for the duration of their employment. When 
they leave the equipment is reused by other employees unless the 
employees chose to buy the equipment. Considering that many 
(young) people do not have the space for a 160x80 work desk, we 
offer them the option of a side cabinet that can be turned into a 
full sit/stand desk.
In 2023, a training course was implemented in the Netherlands on 
when and how to report on sickness and recovery.
It is a given fact that a laptop does not meet regulations regarding 
workplace ergonomics. To meet regulations, Capgemini NL has 
implemented software (Work & Move) to encourage employees 
to take enough breaks and work with the laptop efficiently and 
with full concentration. Additionally, we pro -actively provide all 
employees with an ergo kit, i.e. a desktop stand together with 
a light keyboard. With the desktop stand, the laptop can be 
positioned at a better height when a monitor is not available. The 
next step in the ergonomic process is to implement an annual 
home workplace check.
Despite all the information provided on how to organize your 
workplace ergonomically, an ergonomic workplace is a very personal 
adjustment of general equipment. We have trained ergo coaches 
who can advise and support employees on how to optimize their 
ergonomic workplace. Ergo coaches are Capgemini colleagues, 
trained in general ergonomics, who can support employees on 
request but also spontaneously when they see an unhealthy work 
attitude.
In 2023, Capgemini NL implemented a new mandatory health check 
called MyVitalCycle. MyVitalCycle offers employees a bespoke health 
check where they can choose every year to deep dive into one of 
four health topics: medical, mental, lifestyle and ergonomics. The 
health check includes a one hour meeting with an expert of the 
chosen topic. A physical test is offered in the medical and lifestyle 
deep dive. Via the portal, employees are encouraged to organize 
support to improve on the topic of their choice.
Focus on France
Capgemini France has forged a solid partnership with staff delegates 
and unions and ensures compliance with relevant standards and 
agreements, while working to optimize their implementation 
every year.
This has been ongoing since 2017 with 25 Health & Safety Committees, 
and again since 2020 with the changes in French law (amendment 
of Decree 2017 -1386 of 2017) and the establishment of an internal 
Social and Economic Council and Capgemini’s own body of local 
representatives. The aim is to:
 —  support employees with work -related stress/problems and 
find a solution together. Every employee can raise an alert 
and be supported; 
 —  gather regular collective diagnoses, based on alerts raised, 
so as to carry out targeted and effective preventive actions, 
thus anticipating and dealing with the causes of stress and 
problems at work.
In June 2017, a Health at Work agreement was signed with social 
partners and deployed collectively through dedicated Steering 
Committees. Given the new corporate structure, an amendment to 
this agreement was signed in December 2019. The cross -disciplinary 
action plan focuses on three areas:
 —  P s y c h o social Risk (PSR) training for Managers to help them 
support employees with work -related stress (lack of time to complete work, too much complex information, recurrent 
interruptions in their tasks  etc.). Since 2021, the training is 
available in a remote format; 
 —  time management between jobs, aimed at improving the 
management of inter -contract periods and reducing the 
impact in terms of stress; and
 —  Quality of Work Life (QWL) and stress management, aimed at 
reducing the impact of stress factors by offering innovative 
QWL initiatives to our employees (pilot schemes on various 
QWL and health at work topics such as health, ergonomics 
and stress management).
Additionally, Capgemini has concluded a new agreement on working 
from home with all the representative trade unions, allowing 
employees to spend between 20% to 70% of their working time at 
home on average over the year. This system is part of a preventive 
health care approach and contributes to a better work -life balance 
in line with employee new expectations.This scheme was extended 
at the beginning of 2023 with the introduction of Flexabroad 
(teleworking abroad for a limited period) to continue to promote 
a better work -life balance. More than 1,000 employees within the 
Capgemini group in France have already benefited from this new 
framework. This new agreement further enhances the flexibility 
and autonomy of employees, in line with Capgemini’s values of 
freedom and mutual trust.
We also focused our efforts on training, rolling out a new module 
on the right to disconnect, and encouraging people to take the 
“flexible working” module. Lastly, in the area of safety, we are 
working on adapting our evacuation and first aid training systems to 
keep pace with changes in work organization and mass teleworking.
In addition to our regular health awareness initiatives (raising 
awareness of cardiovascular risks, burn -out, certain cancers, road 
safety, etc.), in 2023:
 —  we developed the use of occupational medicines on certain 
sites to offer various awareness -raising sessions as well as 
vaccinations; and
 —  we launched a new 2 -year partnership with United Heroes 
to combat physical inactivity. This is a sport and well -being 
application that encourages our employees to take part in 
individual and group challenges and to access health and 
well -being content.
Capgemini has also been committed to the employment and integration 
of people with disabilities since 1996. A new agreement (the 6th in 
a row) to promote the employment of people with disabilities was 
signed in November 2023. In particular, the Company renewed 
its commitment to helping employees with disabilities remain 
in work, especially when a health problem appears or develops, 
and preparing the return of employees after a long absence and 
adapting work situations.
b)  Fostering well -being
1.  The Well -being h ub, a global application providing 
mental, physical and social well -being advice and 
services
As Capgemini has moved towards new ways of working, and with 
the many lessons learned, we continue to enhance our global 
well -being offerings via the global Well -being Hub to support long 
term employee well -being through feedback and employee listening.
The global application is available via Microsoft Teams to employees 
to promote connecting with colleagues, and obtain guidance and 
support on mental, physical and social well -being. We engage with 
Capgemini employees through:

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
social: aligned entrepreneurs with protection & respect for all
222
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT4 —  existing and new virtual initiatives, e.g. weekly virtual yoga 
sessions and monthly mindfulness sessions; 
 —  self-learning material provided via our global learning 
platform; 
 —  our Employee Assistance Programs provide additional 
well -being support for employees. Mental health support 
programs and a 24/7  global helpline for mental well -being 
issues have been developed and promoted.
The global Well-Being Hub consists of five key features:
 —  mood Diary: For employees to anonymously self -check their 
mood, and get guidance based on their emotional entry; 
 —  library: Employees can read, watch or listen to curated 
material  and pre -recorded sessions on physical, mental, 
social and financial health from our global learning platform; 
 —  lounge: Employees can facilitate or participate in global 
conversations, interactive sessions and expert webinars 
based on well -being topics of choice. Physical gatherings are 
based on any activity of interest e.g. a tennis class, running 
clubs or non -sport related activities such as a book club, 
coffee corner; 
 —  global Contact Hours: A tool enabling employees to 
understand the general working hours per time zone, and 
manage the overview of multiple time zones for collaboration 
and supporting the work -life balance; 
 —  well -being Support: Contact page where employees can find 
global or local support depending on their area of concern 
and their country Well -being Ambassador.
Together, with our Group well -being team and country well -being 
ambassadors, we maintain and grow our well -being at Capgemini.
Equip and support well‑being at home
Our 360° employee engagement survey was expanded to gain more 
insights on employee well -being and the harmonized employee 
equipment program supports employees with sufficient set -up 
when working from home. Additionally, our global Work From 
Home Playbook provides multidimensional guidance to employees 
on how to best set up their environment when working from home 
to ensure they create healthy habits e.g. when disconnecting from 
work, supporting ergonomics and awareness of data protection 
and safety in their environment.
To ensure employees do not feel isolated and remain connected 
with their teams and the Company culture, we implemented a 
global playbook on team rituals based on seven principles, along 
with e -learnings on a trust -based managerial culture.
To support this new way of working, Capgemini group’s flexible 
working guidelines were based on the principles set out below:
 —  flexible working arrangements defined on a voluntary basis; 
 —  recommendations on the percentage of time worked from 
home to be between 30%-70% (6 -14 days per month); 
 —  all employees are requested to spend time in their Work 
Anchor Point – the employees’ natural Capgemini office.2.  At local level
Employee well -being is addressed from a global and local perspective 
to ensure we satisfy any employee well -being needs.
Within our Capgemini countries, we have examples such as gym 
memberships via GymPass, the Capgemini on the Move Initiative, 
Equilibrium, an emotional health and nutritional pillar, a weight 
management program, the Winter Gym Initiative and Employee 
Appreciation Week.
Focus on India
India’s overarching framework of OH&S covers all the functional 
areas of employee well -being services, from transport, food and 
beverage, on -site clinics, physical security, and customer and visitor 
safety support. In the backdrop of the Covid -19 pandemic in the 
past two years and the co -existence of remote working, support is 
being extended to employees and their family members both on -site 
and remotely and covers holistic physical and mental wellness.
In 2023, we launched the Emotional Harmony Survey to understand 
and identify matters that are significant to our employees and better 
design emotional resilience interventions at an organizational level. 
This completely anonymous and confidential Survey received an 
enthusiastic response across all BUs.
The survey results have been analyzed, drawing out insights and 
identifying employee -focused hotspots which will help to design 
specific, curated mental well -being programs.
c)  Transforming the workspace
At Capgemini, we believe workspace has a major impact on 
employee productivity, the sense of belonging to the organization 
and well -being. Our Capgemini offices represent our brand image 
and spirit, for our people and for our guests.
Our physical offices are focused on welcoming our people in the 
spirit of collaboration and highlight the importance of preplanning 
activity when coming to work to ensure employees have the most 
efficient and pleasant experience. This means booking space 
for planned activities, taking the opportunity to interact with 
colleagues and guests in person, and making time spent in the office 
as interesting and positive as possible. To this end, our offices are 
equipped with digital solutions to help employees navigate in the 
space, book their seats, find information on current activities and 
find support services through apps like Office Pass and SmartOffice. 
All these measures aim to create a seamless experience together 
with smooth access and work conditions. The above measures are 
consolidated and presented in our Work from Office Playbook to 
make sure the guidance is consistent and easy to consult.
d)  Main achievements in 2023
The actions initiated in 2020 were continued. Through extended 
communication, employees have been very receptive and travel 
management has been much easier, as procedures were accepted 
by all. We handed over to procurement and general services the 
management of protection equipment and set up guidelines for 
inventories, reliable providers, and logistics.

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
social: aligned entrepreneurs with protection & respect for all
223
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI4In 2023, the security team continued to monitor international 
travel in accordance with Group guidelines to ensure that only 
essential travel takes place. Providing updated information on travel conditions helped guide travelers and ensure no one was 
stranded or quarantined.
 Metrics 2021 2022 2023 
health & s afety % of travelers in “medium/high” risk countries, who have followed the 
safety/security procedure (Snapshot process)97% 100% 99% 
Number of serious events affecting employees to be monitored  
(terrorist attacks, flooding, tornadoes, civil unrest… )171 143 218 
Assistance Activity – Information and advice 172 571 109 
Assistance Activity
Outpatient
Inpatient
Evacuations and Repatriation of Mortal remains15 29 27 
Assistance Activity – Total number of assistance interventions for 
travelers and/or expats187 600 136 
other information Number of International travels (by air) 13,832 100,084 43,632 
Number of travels to “medium/high” risk countries 791 14,137 6,138 
Scope: Capgemini group.
432  Ethics and human rights
[GRI 2 -23]; [GRI 2 -25]; [GRI 2 -26]; [GRI 406 -1]; [GRI 407 -1]; [GRI 408 -1]; [GRI 409 -1]
esG policy priority G: Maintain high ethical standards at all times for mutual growth
4321  Our values and ethical culture
Our seven core values – freedom, trust, team spirit, honesty, 
boldness, modesty and fun – are at the heart of our identity. Our 
values inspire and guide our team members, who each contribute 
to our ethical culture.
Capgemini’s founder, Mr. Serge Kampf, was deeply convinced 
that sound ethics is an essential foundation for profitable and 
sustainable business. From the outset, this belief in doing business 
ethically, and our commitment to our values, has distinguished us.
Our values express our personality, our spirit. Shared by our team 
members worldwide, our values remain constant, while nurturing 
diversity, and individual freedoms and initiatives.
We define our ethical culture as an aspiration, to guide the behavior 
of all our team members across the world. This means adopting 
an approach that starts with questioning our own actions and 
decisions, inquiring, and defining what “doing the right thing” 
means in our business.
Although our teams are located worldwide, we share a common 
culture based on honesty, trust, and respect for each other’s 
backgrounds and contributions to our joint enterprise. Being a 
values -based organization has enabled us to develop high ethical 
standards while nurturing the diversity of our teams. It has guided 
our behavior throughout the many developments our Group has 
seen, giving us the freedom needed to adapt to our fast -moving 
industry, and the boldness we need to lead. Our ethical framework 
supports our team members in using ethical reasoning to find the 
most ethical way forward in their everyday business decisions and 
actions. It also promotes agile behaviors, well fitted to unanticipated 
events that can arise in complex situations. This ethical framework 
connects all our Group’s employees throughout the world.4322  Ethics and human rights governance
a)  Board of d irectors
As early as 2006, the Capgemini Board of Directors set up an Ethics 
& Governance Committee, whose main duty regarding ethics is 
to ensure the promotion and respect of our seven core values.
Our Code of Business Ethics was first drafted in 2009 to formalize the 
ethical behaviors that our values inspire, and which characterize our 
ethical culture. Each of the Directors signed the code, demonstrating 
their individual and collective commitment and support. Once a 
year, the Group Head of Ethics and the Group Ethics Officer report 
to the Ethics & Governance Committee on our ethics and human 
rights approach and related actions, including guidelines and 
training updates, alerts reported on SpeakUp  (our ethics helpline), 
conflict -of-interest declarations submitted through the Declare 
tool, internal and external communication initiatives during the 
year, a summary of our employees’ feedback received through 
our ethical culture survey, Ethics Pulse and specific updates on 
initiatives related to our human rights commitments. The report 
also includes the main actions planned for the following year 
related to ethics and human rights.
b)  Group Management
The Group Head of Ethics is responsible for our ethics and human 
rights framework and approach across the Group and reports 
directly to the CEO. The Group Ethics Officer reports to the Group 
Head of Ethics and promotes our ethics approach globally. The 
governance was strengthened further in 2023 by the creation of 
a Group Ethics Committee to monitor Ethics’ activities, analyze 
their development and make recommendations on measures to 
ensure Ethics’ missions are fulfilled.

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
social: aligned entrepreneurs with protection & respect for all
224
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT4c)  Business u nits – Global network
Managers of the Group Operating Units (Strategic Business Units 
or SBUs and Business Units or BUs) are accountable for ethics and 
human rights in their respective units. They are also responsible for 
driving ethics and human rights initiatives locally, while respecting 
local legislation.
The Country General Counsels report to the Group General Counsel 
and serve as Ethics & Compliance Officers in their jurisdictions. They 
ensure implementation of ethics and human rights initiatives within 
their regions and liaise with the Group Ethics Officer.
Since 2021, we have set up a new network of “ ethics Champions”  
for Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore, Vietnam and Thailand to 
further strengthen our local ethics network and complement the 
existing group of Ethics & Compliance Officers. The pilot countries 
were selected considering a risk -based approach and where 
the Ethics & Compliance Officer is not physically present in the 
country. The ethics champions are a network of diverse colleagues, 
nominated to formally promote our values and help embed our 
ethics and human rights initiatives locally. Most importantly, ethics 
champions are committed to our values and ethical culture while 
being approachable to everyone in their respective countries. 
Following the successful pilot in APAC, this program has been 
evaluated for other regions in 2023 and will be expanded in 2024.
We are members of global ethics organizations to stay updated 
and adapt to important changes and we focus on continuous 
improvement using external benchmarking. As part of our ongoing 
improvement efforts, our Code of Business Ethics was reviewed 
by an external ethics advisory organization in 2023.
In addition, ethics is being fully integrated into the Group’s Internal 
Audit program.
4323  Our ethics initiatives
We nurture our ethical culture year after year, constantly improving 
our approach. As a result, we have been recognized as One of the 
World’s Most Ethical Companies  by the Ethisphere  Institute for the 
eleventh year running. This recognition highlights Capgemini’s 
role as an employer of choice and a responsible player in the eyes 
of our clients, shareholders, and the wider community.
Our ethics initiatives actively nurture our ethical culture, creating 
and maintaining awareness among employees to help them make 
decisions aligned with our values. Our initiatives advance along 
five main pathways: Guidelines, Training and Communications, 
Listening up, Speaking up, Conflicts of Interest management and 
Opinion for development & innovation.
a)  ethics guidelines and training
Our Code of Business Ethics sets out who we aspire to be and 
translates our values into ethical principles and expected behaviors. 
It is available in multiple languages to all employees and external 
stakeholders. Our code’s commitment is endorsed by all members 
of the Capgemini Board of Directors and the Group Executive 
Board (GEB) as part of their individual and collective support for 
the Code of Business Ethics provisions.
Additional Group ethics guidelines provide more detailed 
information on specific topics such as our ethics helpline SpeakUp  
and the management of conflicts of interest. The management of 
conflicts of interest, in line with our conflict -of-interest policy, was 
strengthened in 2022 with the progressive implementation of a 
specific tool, Declare, which has been rolled out so far in 39 countries 
across the Group, covering 93% of our headcount. The roll -out will 
continue for the remaining countries in 2024.Capgemini has paid particular attention to Artificial Intelligence 
(AI) as a key growth area presenting both huge opportunities and 
ethical challenges by publishing our Code of e thics for AI : an 
ethical framework for the development of all AI solutions within 
the Group. Our vision of AI is determined by our ethical culture and 
guided by our core values. We envisage our developments in AI 
as a contribution to building the inclusive and sustainable future 
we all aim for. Our Code of Ethics for AI sets out guidelines for 
the ethical and human -centric design and delivery of AI solutions.
Our Ethics training strengthens our ethical culture through:
 —  mandatory e -learning courses on our Code of Business Ethics: 
Ethics@Capgemini was relaunched in 2021 with a refreshed 
learner interface and modular format and will be reassigned 
annually to all employees starting in 2022. Subsequent annual 
recertification includes refresher training and assessments 
using AI based on learners’ performance in the previous 
year to reinforce training according to the individual learner 
needs. In 2023, Ethics@Capgemini comprised a core module 
“Values and Ethics” and four scenario -based sub -modules 
featuring short, engaging videos on ethics topics including 
“Honoring human rights”, “Speaking up and non -retaliation”, 
“Conflict of interest”, “Harassment -free work environment”, 
allowing employees to practice how to handle tricky 
ethical situations. Harassment -free work environment also 
includes the key topics of preventing sexual harassment 
and discrimination. Through the annual ethics training, all 
our employees receive the related guidelines (Our Code of 
Business Ethics, SpeakUp , Conflict of Interest, and Human 
Rights policies) and pledge their commitment to follow the 
guidelines set out in the policies; 
 —  in Q1 2023, a two -day face -to-face investigation management 
refresher -training was conducted for our Ethics & Compliance 
Officers and SpeakUp  investigators in collaboration with 
experienced external trainers. Additionally, there are 
quarterly sessions with our Ethics & Compliance Officers 
and SpeakUp  investigators where they share experiences and 
learning from managing complex SpeakUp  cases along with 
practical scenarios, role plays, and break -out discussions 
supported by external trainers.
b)  ethics awareness communications
Communications on our values and ethics are conceived at Group 
level. These are promoted in collaboration with Group and country 
communications teams and our dedicated Ethics & Compliance 
Officers network:
 —  In 2023, we celebrated our 11th year of recognition as One of 
the World’s Most Ethical Companies® by Ethisphere.
 —  Think Ethics is our newsletter on key ethics topics, comprising 
a ready -to-use managers’ toolkit.
 —  Ethics Radio  is our podcast series available on our Group 
intranet (Talent) for all employees. We talk about sanitized 
SpeakUp  cases – the kind of cases we encounter and how 
these are handled internally. Along with the annual sharing 
of SpeakUp  statistics, this helps strengthen our speaking up 
culture through trust and transparency.

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
social: aligned entrepreneurs with protection & respect for all
225
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI4 —  We publish our key news and articles on the Group intranet 
(Talent) and in Let’s Talk – a Group deck for managers.
 —  We continually focus on sharing our achievements, insights, 
and learning through various external communications such 
as Capgemini.com  and our corporate social media channels.
 —  We run re gular campaigns for the launch of new ethics 
guidelines, tools and recognitions.
c)  Active listening, for continuous improvement
As o ne of the World’s Most Ethical Companies®, we take the time 
to talk about ethics together. We regularly ask for employee 
feedback, empowering our team members to enrich our 
understanding, and further strengthen our ethical culture. We 
make sure that we act in response to this feedback.
We aim to maintain over 80% of the workforce with an e thics 
score of between 7 and 10.
Since 2021, the Capgemini ethical culture survey has been fully 
embedded in our monthly Pulse survey on a platform hosted by an 
external provider. Nine questions on our values and ethical culture 
are asked each month and all employees receive the opportunity 
to share their feedback for the nine questions twice a year. In 
2023, an aggregate of over 240,000 employees from 45 countries 
participated. The survey had questions on our values and ethical culture and speaking up culture. It confirmed a widespread perception 
among team members that Capgemini is an ethical workplace (an 
average overall ethical culture score of 8.3 out of 10 with 86% 
of our workforce scoring us at between 7 and 10). Aggregated 
feedback and analysis from the survey, along with guidelines, were 
shared with team managers and business leaders. All managers 
have access to their span’s dashboard, with scores and feedback, 
while maintaining the anonymity of employees.
Insights from the survey results have been considered for the 
Ethics action plan: in 2023, insights were considered to develop 
“Purpose and Values” workshops for new employee onboarding in 
collaboration with HR, initiate the revamp of Our Code of Business 
Ethics to emphasize expected behaviors inspired by our values, 
prioritize tool and process enhancements to monitor and track 
retaliation, strengthen internal investigation training for our SpeakUp  
investigators and revamp our annual Ethics@Capgemini training. We 
also shared new Ethics Radio  podcasts with all employees, discussing 
sanitized SpeakUp  cases. In 2024, we will continue to focus on the 
increased alignment of behaviors with our values with the launch 
of our revamped Code, improvement of ethics discussions within 
team meetings, and increased support from leaders and managers 
to spread trust in our speaking -up culture and our zero tolerance 
for retaliation. Listening to employees’ feedback is a continuous 
process, which helps us adjust our priorities with the insights gained.
 Metric 2021 2022 2023 
Maintain high ethical standards at  
all times, for mutual growth% of the headcount (average total headcount), 
with an Ethics score of between 7 and 1085% 87% 86% 
Scope: Capgemini group.
4324  Human rights at Capgemini
Acknowledgement of the freedom of each individual, and the 
trust in others that this implies, are fundamental to the respect 
for human dignity. Freedom and Trust, two of Capgemini’s core 
values, underpin the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and 
reinforce Capgemini’s natural inclination to unwavering respect 
of human rights.
a)  our human rights framework
Along with our overarching Code of Business Ethics, which fosters 
our commitment to human rights, we published a dedicated human 
rights policy in December 2021 that covers our full value chain, 
and aligns with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the 
United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights 
(UNGPs) and the International Labor Organization’s Declaration 
on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work (ILO Declaration). 
Our human rights policy states our commitments, program, and 
governance, and covers all Capgemini activities. It is endorsed 
by our Group Chief Executive Officer, and the progress of our 
human rights initiatives is monitored by the Ethics & Governance 
Committee of the Capgemini Board of Directors;In defining our human rights policy, we identified our ten human 
rights commitments:
 —  eight of our commitments concern key human rights issues 
particularly at stake for the Company:
 –  equal opportunity and fair treatment; 
 –  freedom of expression; 
 –  freedom of association and collective bargaining; 
 –  harassment -free work; 
 –  safe and healthy workplace; 
 –  protection against child labor, forced labor, and human 
trafficking; 
 –  data privacy; 
 –  protecting human rights through our ethical approach 
on AI solutions.
 —  two of our commitments represent positive actions from the 
Group towards those rights:
 –  right to education;
 –  digital inclusion.
In the implementation of its human rights policy, Capgemini 
considers the vulnerability of certain groups of people as defined by 
international law such as migrant workers, women and indigenous 
people.

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
social: aligned entrepreneurs with protection & respect for all
226
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT4This Section will provide a global understanding of our human 
rights framework monitored by Group Ethics. Detailed actions regarding our human rights commitments are developed in the 
different Sections of this Statement on Non-Financial Performance:
our human rights commitments related s ections
Equal Opportunity and fair treatment Social – Own workforce
Freedom of expression Social – Ethics and human rights
Freedom of association and collective bargaining Social – Own workforce
Harassment -free work Social – Ethics and human rights
Safe and healthy workplace Social – Own workforce
Protection against child labor, forced labor and  
human traffickingSocial – Own workforce
Capgemini Supply Chain ESG pledge – stakeholders approach and 
engagement
Data privacy Governance – Protect and secure data
Right to education Social – Own workforce
Digital inclusion Social – Local communities
Protecting human rights through our ethical approach on  
AI solutionsSocial – Ethics and human rights
b)  raising awareness on human rights
To protect and promote the respect of human rights across our Group, 
the first step is to ensure that our ten human rights commitments 
are known and understood by all Capgemini’s employees. To this 
end, our CEO annually communicates on our commitments to 
respect human rights.
Our human rights policy is published on the Capgemini intranet, 
accessible by all employees, and available on Capgemini’s external 
website.
Dedicated training sessions were conducted in 2022 for key 
positions such as the Ethics & Compliance Officers network and 
for Internal Auditors.
As part of our mandatory e -learning course Ethics@Capgemini, 
we have developed a dedicated human rights sub -module. This 
sub-module was launched in January 2023 for all employees and 
focuses on Capgemini human rights policy commitments and their 
implementation across the Group. Every year, we also assign two 
sub-modules on: “ Harassment‑free workplace ” and “ Speaking up 
and non‑retaliation ”.
In 2022, Human Rights was one of the three key pillars of our Ethics in 
Motion campaign launched to celebrate our 10th year of recognition 
as one of the Worlds’ Most Ethical Companies® by Ethisphere. Human 
Rights as a topic was included in Ethics Conversations, in both the 
global and country editions, and a dedicated session was organized 
during a plenary event to raise awareness on business and the 
implementation of our human rights commitments internally.
c)  human r ights assessment and due diligence in our value 
chain
Human rights assessment questionnaire for all countries: Following 
the publication of the human rights policy, we developed a country 
human rights assessment questionnaire to look per country at all 
aspects of our business and assess where there is more exposure 
to human rights impacts. This country human rights assessment 
questionnaire is divided into different Sections focusing on the 
potential human rights risk factor for the country. It has a set of 
questions directly linked to each human rights commitment of our human rights policy. The aim of this assessment questionnaire is to 
assess the quality of the actions that are already in place, but also 
to identify gaps and areas of progress in terms of the promotion 
and protection of human rights. We aim to deploy dedicated action 
plans to be regularly monitored. A pilot assessment questionnaire 
was organized in India where we have 50% of our workforce. We are 
in the process of deploying this assessment questionnaire to other 
Capgemini countries of operations following a risk -based approach. 
The headcount of the country and the type of activities are also 
taken into account in the selection of the countries to be assessed.
In 2023 with the support of an external expert, we launched a 
human rights impact assessment for a renovation and refurbishment 
project at our offices in India. The assessment will allow us to 
identify specific human rights risks directly linked to this project and 
implement a corrective action plan with related mitigation actions.
In our supply chain: Capgemini’s Supplier Standards of Conduct 
applies to all contractors/suppliers/service providers and is available 
on Capgemini’s corporate website. It formalizes the standards that 
will be applied and enforced within its business relationships. It is 
critical to Capgemini that its suppliers – including their employees 
– are committed to maintaining the highest ethical standards and 
adhering to applicable human rights standards. In 2022, in line 
with the Duty of Care law and Human Rights Policy, we launched 
a suppliers’ risk mapping exercise with the support of an external 
consultant. In 2023, we identified our purchasing categories with 
significant human rights risks, and we are now deploying the 
relevant action plans (for more details, refer to Section 4.4.2.4).
In our clients’ interactions: To implement our human rights 
commitments along our full value chain, we need to identify 
our human rights risks linked to our clients’ practices and in the 
impact of our services. On a risk based approach, some deals are 
escalated and submitted to the approval of the Capgemini group 
Review Board (GRB). Through this process, Group Ethics conducts 
an ethical review of deals presented to the GRB. In 2022, Group 
Ethics extended its review to integrate human rights. Each new 
client escalation to the GRB is now reviewed considering ethics 
and human rights criteria including the country and sector human 
rights risk exposure as well potential human rights controversies.

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
social: aligned entrepreneurs with protection & respect for all
227
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI4In 2023, with the support of an external consulting firm, we launched 
a project to design and set up a methodology to assess our clients’ 
practices as well as the impact of our services. We launched this 
process with the support of the Group Sales Officers and other 
internal functions linked to the client management process or the 
evaluation of risks related to clients. The aim of this methodology 
is to (i) integrate human rights criteria in the onboarding of new 
clients and for new projects and, (ii) monitor the potential human 
rights controversies of our clients.d)  human r ights mitigation actions
To ensure the operational implementation of Capgemini human 
rights commitments and mitigate potential human rights negative 
impacts, the Group has put in place dedicated policies, guidelines 
and processes.
Here is a table summarizing our main internal guidelines and 
processes for each of our human rights commitments:
Policies and processes in place against our h uman r ights Commitments
Equal opportunity and fair treatment Own Workforce: D&I Policy, Pulse, SpeakUp
Supply chain: Suppliers Standards of conduct
Freedom of expression Own workforce: Our Values, Pulse, SpeakUp
Supply chain: Suppliers Standards of conduct
Freedom of association and collective bargaining Own Workforce: IWC, collective agreements
Supply chain: Suppliers Standards of Conduct
Harassment -free work Own Workforce: Ethics@Capgemini module, SpeakUp
Supply chain: Suppliers Standards of Conduct
Safe and healthy workplace Own Workforce: HR, CRES, Security
Supply chain: Suppliers Standards of Conduct
Clients’ interactions: Safety -related deals checklist
Just and favorable conditions of work and protection against 
child labor, forced labor and human trafficking (working 
conditions)Own Workforce: Collective and enterprise agreements
Supply chain: Suppliers Standards of Conduct
Digital Inclusion Own Workforce: L&D
Local communities: CSR program
Right to education Own Workforce: L&D
Data Privacy Full value chain: Data privacy program
Protecting human rights through our ethical approach on 
Artificial Intelligence solutionsFull value chain: Code of ethics for artificial intelligence
More broadly, we are reinforcing our dialog with potentially 
affected internal and external stakeholders and taking into account 
International Works Council recommendations.
Group Ethics continuously strengthens its focus on our human 
rights commitment with regular interactions with our peers and 
other relevant internal and external stakeholders to share best 
practices and always improve our actions.
4325  Management of concerns raised by 
stakeholders (organization, mitigation and 
remediation, reporting 2023)
a)  Channels for affected stakeholders to raise concerns: 
speaking up – alerts and investigations
Capgemini trusts and expects team members and external 
stakeholders to report ethical concerns related to the Group’s 
activities in good faith. SpeakUp , our ethics helpline, is more than 
just a tool; it is a commitment to listen to our employees, to be 
fair when investigating issues, to show organizational justice, 
maintain confidentiality and protect reporters from any form of 
retaliation. It is a web and phone -based ethics reporting, incident 
management and advisory tool, hosted by an independent service 
provider, managed by our Group Ethics Office, and supported by our 
global network of General Counsels – Ethics & Compliance Officers 
and SpeakUp  investigators. SpeakUp  is voluntary, confidential, 
and allows anonymity. It is made available by Capgemini to all 
its stakeholders – our team members across the Group, clients, 
suppliers, and business partners. SpeakUp  empowers people to 
report alerts and ask for advice and guidance about actions or behaviors that are (1) not aligned with our values, our Code of 
Business Ethics and related Ethics & Compliance policies, (2) not 
in compliance with applicable laws, or (3) that may significantly 
affect vital interests of Capgemini and its affiliates.
Alerts related to violations or risks of violation of human rights and 
corrective actions are monitored through SpeakUp. We are also in 
the process of ensuring the alignment of our SpeakUp policy with 
the UNGPs effectiveness criteria for remediation.
Anyone who, in good faith, raises or helps address an alert on SpeakUp  
is protected by our non -retaliation policy. Substantiated alerts result 
in appropriate remediation actions, including disciplinary actions, 
counselling/training, and culture improvements. our SpeakUp  policy 
and helpline are available in several languages and the SpeakUp  
helpline is available 24X7. Once an alert is reported in SpeakUp , it 
is received by the Group Ethics Office, which performs an initial 
review. After this assessment, the Group Ethics Office assigns the 
alert to the local Ethics & Compliance Officer responsible for the 
jurisdiction where the incident reported in the alert occurred. An 
exception to this process would happen in cases where there is 
an actual, potential, or perceived conflict of interest for the local 
Ethics & Compliance Officer to investigate the alert, or where the 
Group Ethics Office believes that the alert is of such a severe nature 
that it must be investigated at Group level.
SpeakUp  helps us maintain transparency by managing the entire 
process within the tool, including communication with the reporters, 
witnesses, and investigation and leadership teams. It helps us 
perform root -cause analysis and prevent future similar unethical 
behavior or violation of internal policies or applicable laws by 
helping us identify areas of improvement in our business processes.

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
social: aligned entrepreneurs with protection & respect for all
228
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT4We share SpeakUp  statistics with our employees around the world 
annually and sanitized SpeakUp  cases through our communication 
initiative Ethics Radio  on an ongoing basis to enhance trust and 
reinforce our ethical culture.
b)  Alerts remediation
As an outcome of SpeakUp  investigations, the substantiated alerts 
result in appropriate remediation such as counseling/training, 
disciplinary actions for individuals (based on the severity of the 
alerts) and a review or update of related processes and improvement 
action plans.
In 2023, substantiated alerts related to discrimination were on the 
grounds of age, gender, employment status, nationality, pregnancy, persons with disabilities, racism, sexual orientation, parental 
status and gender orientation, and alerts related to harassment 
included unethical behavior such as bullying, humiliation, physical 
& verbal abuse, and sexual harassment. Following the investigation 
findings for these alerts, sanctions and remediation plans were 
implemented, which included separation, career sanctions, warnings 
(verbal/written), performance improvement plans, adjustments 
to Group mandatory trainings and country -specific training to 
address cultural aspects, counseling, and awareness initiatives.
Other remediation actions taken as a result of SpeakUp  investigations 
to prevent the recurrence of similar issues include tailored training 
for the target audience, and the implementation of new local policies.
c)  reporting 2023
Ethics@Capgemini training completion
 Metrics 2021 2022 2023 
Code of Business e thics e -learning  (1) % of headcount (total headcount at the end of 
the year) who completed the Ethics@Capgemini 
e-learning module on the Code of Business Ethics67% 73% 91% 
% of headcount (total headcount at the end of the 
year) who completed the e -learning sub -module 
on human rights 93% 
Scope: Capgemini group.
(1) The module on the Code of Business Ethics, comprised a core module “Values and Ethics” and four scenario -based sub -modules featuring short, engaging videos on ethics 
topics including “Honoring human rights”, “Speaking up and non -retaliation”, “Conflict of interest”, and “Harassment -free work environment”. The sub -module on Human 
Rights was launched in January 2023 and assigned to all employees as part of the annual reassignment of our Code of Business Ethics e -learning “Ethics@Capgemini”.
Affected	stakeholders’	concerns	reporting	2023
 Metrics 2021 2022 2023 
Alerts reported on SpeakUp  (1) Number of alerts reported on SpeakUp , as per the 
last day of each year 414 599 1,059 
Number of alerts reported on SpeakUp  – by year –, 
at the end of the current reporting period 398 572 1,059 
Closed alerts (2)  % of alerts reported on SpeakUp , as per the last 
day of each year, that are no longer subject to 
action (closed) 73% 72% 78% 
% of alerts reported on SpeakUp  – by year –,  
that are no longer subject to action at the end of 
the current reporting period (closed) 100% 100% 78% 
Anonymous alerts % of alerts reported on SpeakUp  for which the 
reporter’s identity is unknown, as per the last day 
of each year 40% 48% 52% 
% of alerts reported on SpeakUp  for which the 
reporter’s identity is unknown – by year –,  
at the end of the current reporting period 39% 47% 52% 
substantiated alerts % of alerts closed that are established/proven,  
as per the last day of each year 45% 40% 33% 
% of alerts reported on SpeakUp  closed that are 
established/proven – by year-, at the end of the 
current reporting period 46% 40% 33% 
discrimination alerts reported  
on SpeakUp  Number of discrimination alerts, as per the last 
day of each year 24 42 113 
Number of discrimination alerts – by year –,  
at the end of the current reporting period 26 46 113 
discrimination alerts closed % of discrimination alerts that are no longer 
subject to action (closed), as per the last day of 
each year 75% 81% 81% 
% of discrimination alerts – by year –, that are no 
longer subject to action at the end of the current 
reporting period (closed) 100% 100% 81% 

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
social: aligned entrepreneurs with protection & respect for all
229
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI4 Metrics 2021 2022 2023 
discrimination alerts substantiated % of the discrimination alerts closed that are 
established/or proven, as per the last day of each 
year 17% 18% 31% 
% of alerts reported on SpeakUp  closed that are 
established/proven – by year –, at the end of the 
current reporting period 15% 24% 31% 
harassment alerts reported on SpeakUp  Number of harassment alerts (including sexual 
harassment), as per the last day of each year 46 102 219 
Number of harassment alerts (including sexual 
harassment) – by year –, at the end of the current 
reporting period 52 113 219 
harassment alerts closed % of harassment alerts that are no longer subject 
to action (closed), as per the last day of each year 80% 87% 81% 
% of harassment alerts – by year –, that are no 
longer subject to action at the end of the current 
reporting period (closed) 100% 100% 81% 
harassment alerts substantiated % of the harassment alerts closed that are 
established or proven, as per the last day of each 
year 65% 55% 39% 
% of the harassment alerts closed that are 
established or proven – by year –, at the end of the 
current reporting period 60% 50% 39% 
Conflicts of interest alerts reported on 
SpeakUp  Number of alerts related to conflicts of interest, 
as per the last day of each year 46 63 69 
Number of alerts related to conflicts of interest 
– by year -, at the end of the current reporting 
period 44 64 69 
Conflicts of interest alerts closed % of conflicts of interest alerts that are no longer 
subject to action as per the last day of each year 
(closed) 76% 81% 81% 
% of conflicts of interest alerts – by year –,  
that are no longer subject to action at the end of 
the current reporting period (closed) 100% 100% 81% 
Conflicts of interest alerts substantiated % of conflicts of interest alerts closed that are 
established/proven, as per the last day of each year 54% 67% 46% 
% of conflicts of interest alerts closed that are 
established/proven – by year-, at the end of the 
current reporting period52% 59% 46% 
Scope: Capgemini group.
(1) For alerts that are out of scope of the SpeakUp  policy, reporters are guided to use the appropriate mechanism or reach out to the relevant function for review, and alerts 
are subsequently deleted from SpeakUp . Our employees also reach out to their team managers or HR managers for reporting alerts and team managers and HR managers 
are expected to record on SpeakUp  alerts reported directly to them. The KPI shows only the in -scope alerts; in addition to the number of alerts reported above, we also 
investigated candidate recruitment frauds* which were primarily reported through control functions (a temporary occurrence reported in India primarily because of 
restrictions imposed due to Covid -19 when face to face interviews as part of the recruitment process could not be conducted)* Frauds which have been detected through 
control processes in the Company and primarily include two types of cases – (i) background check failures (falsification of document(s) or misrepresentation by a candidate 
to obtain employment/project at Capgemini, resulting in background check failures, where background checks refer to the verification of the accuracy of a candidate’s 
claims (i.e., previous work experience, education, skills) that have been submitted to Capgemini) and (ii) identity check failures (misrepresentation by a candidate to obtain 
employment/project at Capgemini; includes impersonation, proxy interview, lip syncing during interviews, or other imitations with the intent to deceive another. It would 
include verification that the candidate is a true bearer of and can provide a government -issued legal identity document).
(2) An incident is no longer subject to action if it is resolved, the case is completed, or no further action is required by the organization. For example, an incident for which no 
further action is required can include cases that were withdrawn or where the underlying circumstances that led to the incident no longer exist.
We recorded an increase in the number of alerts per 1,000 employees 
in 2023 as compared to 2022, respectively 3.1 and 1.6. 
Reasons for this increase could be attributed to:
 —  the dedicated e -learning sub -module on Speaking up and 
Non-Retaliation which is assigned to all employees as part of 
our annual recertification process; 
 —  various communication initiatives like Ethics Radio  where 
employees are made aware, using sanitized cases, of the 
circumstances in which ethical lapses happen, the impact 
these lapses may have on Capgemini and our workforce and 
how such investigations are managed; 
 —  our training and communication efforts build trust in our 
speaking up culture and encourage our employees to report 
unethical behavior; this is also observed by the rise in the number of countries from where we have received SpeakUp  
alerts/questions (38 countries in 2023 as compared to 31 in 
2022).
In 2023, the countries of origin of the alerts were: Australia, 
Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, China, Columbia, Denmark, Egypt, 
Finland, France, Germany, Guatemala, Hong Kong, India, Ireland, 
Italy, Japan, Malaysia, Mexico, Morocco, the Netherlands, Norway, 
the Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Romania, the Kingdom of Saudi 
Arabia, Singapore, Slovakia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Tunisia, 
Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, the United Kingdom, the United 
States, and Vietnam.
In addition to the alerts, we received 478 inquiries seeking guidance 
from employees: all these questions were promptly addressed by 
our local Ethics & Compliance Officers.

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
social: aligned entrepreneurs with protection & respect for all
230
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT4Additional Human Rights Indicators
We monitor the implementation of our human rights requirements through defined indicators:
Metrics 2022 2023 
Number of prospective clients subject to human rights reviews 24 51 
Number of AI solutions whose impacts on human rights have been assessed 6 5 
% of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments  50% 
Purchasing categories subject to significant human rights risk (child labor, forced labor, working conditions)  5 
Scope: Capgemini group.
433  Local communities
[GRI 203 -1]; [GRI 203 -2]; [GRI 413 -1]; [GRI 413 -2]
4331  Digital inclusion support in our communities 
(policy and main achievements in 2023)
ESG policy priority E: Support digital inclusion in our 
communities.
Capgemini’s ambition is to take part in making the digital 
revolution an opportunity  by bridging the gap between technology 
and society. The long -lasting connection between people and 
technology – being at the heart of our Group since its creation 
– has led to a deep sense of responsibility  regarding both the 
impacts of technology and the risks of being excluded from its 
opportunities in an increasingly connected world.
In the current landscape of the dual digital and sustainability 
transition , digital empowerment plays a pivotal role in determining 
societal and digital inclusion. That is why, at Capgemini, we are 
committed to being a leader in digital inclusion . Our convictions 
are rooted in the belief that technology should open doors to the 
future. Being mindful that technology is a powerful enabler and 
accelerator but not a solution in itself, we aim at driving impactful 
digital inclusion initiatives hand in hand with our ecosystem of 
not‑for‑profit partners, and social enterprises, academic and 
civil society organizations  to equip underprivileged individuals 
with the skills they need to thrive in a digital world.
With the fast -paced adoption of technologies like artificial intelligence, 
championing digital inclusion becomes critical. ensuring everyone 
has vital digital skills , addresses our industry needs and prevents 
deepening social inequalities and exclusion risks. We need skilled 
talent, and we have a responsibility to make careers in technology 
possible for those with fewer opportunities and privileges.
Fostering the entrepreneurial spirit of our teams , their talent, 
and their passion, we continue to accelerate our efforts towards 
empowering excluded individuals and underprivileged communities 
access to digital rights and services that have become essential.
a)  We aim to support 5M beneficiaries through our Digital 
Inclusion programs by 2030
In 2023, we continued to develop our programs with our ecosystem 
of partners to make a strong and authentic impact. Our efforts 
align with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, 
in particular SDG 4 (quality education), SGD 5 (gender equality), 
SDG 8 (decent work and economic growth) and SDG 10 (reduce 
inequalities).In 2023, we positively impacted 2,477,033 beneficiaries, welcoming 
into our team 1,086 talents out of the 14,297 graduates trained 
in our Digital Academies .
To pursue our ambition of impacting 5M beneficiaries by 2030 
and beyond, we continued to drive our Digital Inclusion programs 
across four main streams: Digital Literacy , Digital Academy , Tech for 
Positive Futures , and Advocacy & thought leadership, all of which 
are supported and enabled through employee volunteering.
 —  Through our Digital Literacy  initiatives, we continued to 
provide access to digital devices to the most excluded and 
impart foundational digital skills to the digitally uninformed 
and untrained to help them take their first steps toward 
digital autonomy.
 —  Through our Digital Academies , we continued to help 
individuals transform their lives for the better through 
digital empowerment and employment opportunities in the 
tech sector.
 —  Through our Tech for Positive Futures  initiatives and with our 
diverse ecosystem of partners, we leveraged technology 
and innovation to develop solutions that positively impact 
society and the planet.
 —  Through our Advocacy & Thought leadership action, we 
focused on raising awareness about the digital divide and 
how to t ackle it to inspire others to adopt collective and 
meaningful activities.
In our ongoing efforts, we remain dedicated to shaping our actions 
and strategies with a focus on meaningful and authentic impact, 
reflecting our commitment to addressing social and gender 
inequalities and exclusions within underprivileged communities 
through the continuous improvement of our Digital Inclusion 
initiatives.
1.  empowering underprivileged talents through Digital 
Literacy  and Digital Academy
Digital Literacy
Addressing the digital divide has been a central focus of our 
Corporate Responsibility strategy since our Digital Literacy  pillar was 
established in 2019. Through close collaboration with our network 
of partners, we have been actively working on empowering the most 
excluded communities, encompassing socially and economically 
disadvantaged individuals, people with disabilities, refugees, and 
racial/ethnic minorities, etc., in multiple ways:
 —  we provide access to digital tools and devices to the most 
excluded; 
 —  we impart foundational digital skills to the digitally 
uninformed and untrained; 
 —  we raise digital awareness and inspire young people and 
women to pursue careers in tech.

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
social: aligned entrepreneurs with protection & respect for all
231
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI4As in previous years, our colleagues worldwide played a pivotal 
role in spearheading these initiatives locally, dedicating their 
time and channeling their skills and passion to digitally empower 
underprivileged individuals and communities.
As a result, in 2023, we helped 856,083 beneficiaries, equipping 
them with the skills and tools they need to thrive in this digital 
era and be future -ready.
We empower local communities through Digital Literacy  
programs.
Across the globe, our colleagues collaborated with local partners 
to deploy impactful Digital Literacy  programs, achieving authentic 
and meaningful impact in alignment with our Group targets:
 —  in India, our partnership with AADHAAR, Aide et Action, 
Change Initiatives, Mentor Me Foundation, Pi Jam Foundation, 
Quest Alliance, SRF Foundation, Tata Institute of Social 
Sciences, Teach to Lead, and Udaan drives a transformative 
educational experience. The initiatives, designed for 
government school students in grades 5 -9, deliver affordable 
technology access and cultivate crucial problem -solving and 
digital skills through a hands -on approach. Additionally, the 
program empowers in -service teachers with technical and 
pedagogical skills, fostering effective independent delivery 
and long -term sustainability; 
 —  in France, we worked with 998  students from priority 
neighborhoods in partnership with Innov’Avenir, through 
a program called “Des Pros dans ta classe”. This program is 
designed to enhance their professional orientation through 
the facilitation of in -class workshops, allowing young 
individuals to explore digital professions while challenging 
gender stereotypes to foster diversity; 
 —  in Morocco, we continue sponsoring the Digital Caravan 
project that focuses on improving children’s Digital Literacy  in 
rural areas. The initiative consists of different phases across 
four modules, in which children can improve their digital 
skills with lessons such as cybersecurity awareness, SCRATCH 
programming, and creating animated web pages; 
 —  in Italy, we partner with Libr“-Progetti Educative to sponsor 
the ”Futuri Fantastici e dove trovarli ” (Fantastic Futures and 
where to find them) program. The project aims to introduce 
the concept and importance of STEM subjects by providing 
training kits to students aged 12 -13 and promote girls in 
STEM in particular. We supported 11,300 students this year 
by promoting STEM learning; 
 —  in Poland, we partnered with Zwolnieni z Teorii, which 
engages high school students in building social projects. As 
part of this initiative, our employees mentored 95  young 
persons who conducted 16  projects on Digital Inclusion, 
including 12 on the topic of Digital Literacy ; 
 —  in China, the “Welfare Class for Young Talent” provided free 
training to help 1,224  young students in universities seize 
career opportunities. This program covers several subjects 
such as big data frontier analysis and case introduction, 
Generative AI, career plan path selection and digital 
transformation Trends, among others; 
 —  in the US, our employees volunteered to support 
7,029  trainees through our partnerships with Per Scholas, 
Junior Achievement and other organizations with a focus 
on historically underrepresented students transitioning into 
careers in technology transformation. We conducted mock 
interviews, delivered educational sessions on emerging 
technologies, and facilitated training on financial well -being.We enable access to digital equipment in local communities.
Through our digital equipment donation programs, we continue 
to allocate PCs, laptops, and other digital equipment from our 
inventory to support our Digital Literacy  programs in underprivileged 
communities.
In 2023, we continued to build on this initiative, aiming to amplify 
the positive impact of our Digital Literacy  programs by enabling 
access to digital equipment with 8,217 donations across countries 
including France, Spain, the US, and Germany. In France, we donated 
590 laptops to Emmaüs Connect to support beneficiaries who 
cannot afford the equipment. In addition, our volunteers were 
committed to facilitating sessions to teach basic digital skills, 
making sure access and learning both go hand in hand.
We promoted s TeM (science, Technology, e ngineering, and 
Mathematics) education and careers among young talents, 
focusing on young girls and women.
Acknowledging the low representation of girls and women in 
STEM and dedicated to nurturing a sustainable talent pipeline 
from an early stage, we strengthened our Ace of STEM program. 
This initiative is designed to encourage STEM interest among 
young talents, particularly focusing on girls and young women. 
Here are some examples:
 —  In Brazil, 74 volunteers provided support in competitions and 
workshops to over 2,800 children to learn about robotics and 
to the teachers who lead the children’s groups.
 —  In Italy, Capgemini volunteers supported 3  local challenges 
undertaken by children’s teams to solve energy sustainability 
using robotics. All these initiatives were hosted in partnership 
with the First Lego League.
 —  In Morocco, we signed a second partnership with TIBU Africa 
to continue promoting STEM education through sports and 
entrepr eneurship, supporting students aged between 7 and 
14, children with disabilities, and youth entrepreneurship.
We empower underprivileged young people and communities 
in countries in the Global s outh.
In 2023, Capgemini joined forces with UNICEF and Generation 
Unlimited to launch the Green Rising initiative, investing three 
million euros in global youth green skill -building over three years.
Through scaling and innovating Generation Unlimited’s (part of 
UNICEF) effective programs such as the Global Volunteer Initiative 
and Green YOMA, this partnership aims to empower millions of 
youths across several countries, including Nigeria, South Africa, 
Brazil, Madagascar, and Burundi, taking greater action by 2025 to 
protect against and adapt to the devastating impacts of climate 
change on their families, communities, villages, towns, and cities.
Green Rising will focus on two programs, including the Global 
Volunteer Initiative (GVI), UNICEF’s largest cohort of offline youth 
mobilization, which allows young people to deliver change in their 
communities while building critical 21st-century skills to generate 
measurable impact at scale.
The second program, Green YOMA, is a youth marketplace that 
guides, skills, and connects young people to various free online 
content and provides green -specific opportunities, such as monthly 
challenges to mobilize youth and pitching competition for green 
business ideas.

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
social: aligned entrepreneurs with protection & respect for all
232
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT4In India, Green Rising will aim to focus on engagement, learning, 
skill development, and employment of young people, helping them 
provide solutions to face the challenges that the most populated 
country in the world will face in the following years.
These initiatives will be rolled out and scaled across countries in 
the Global South, focusing on communities most at risk from the 
climate crisis.
Globally, in 2024, we will pursue our efforts to deploy impactful 
Digital Literacy  projects with our ecosystem of partners and continue 
to accelerate the engagement of our employees to help empower 
the digitally excluded.
Digital Academy
Our Digital Academy  programs are tailored to provide customized 
training in digital technologies offering disadvantaged individuals 
the opportunity to acquire in -demand tech skills and explore career 
opportunities in the tech sector. We work closely with our ecosystem 
of NGO partners and clients to customize and adapt the curriculum, 
ensuring it meets the specific needs of local communities. In addition 
to digital training, our programs encompass essential soft skills, 
comprehensive job interview preparation, and ongoing mentoring.
As of 2023, we had over 50 Digital Academy  programs operational 
across 11 countries, where we train students in key digital skills 
such as DevOps, coding, Java, full stack development, software 
testing, cloud web services, cybersecurity, and Artificial Intelligence 
to name a few. Crafted in partnership with our ecosystem, our 
programs are strategically designed to respond to market needs and 
maximize beneficiaries’ employability opportunities post -training.
In the diverse regions where we operate, we enhance the 
effectiveness of our Digital Academy  programs through local strategic 
partnerships, tailoring our initiatives to better address the needs 
of underrepresented minorities. Here are a few highlights of our 
ongoing programs in 2023:
 —  In India, Capgemini is teaming up with AWS on the AWS re/
Start program to bridge the digital gap. The goal is to train 
1,800  learners by 2024, offering technical coursework, 
hands -on labs, and professional skills training for entry to 
mid -level careers in high -demand cloud roles.
 —  In the UK, our long -standing partnership with Code your 
Future  since 2019 continues to provide web development 
training to refugees/asylum seekers and minority groups 
to prepare them for technology careers. This year we 
had 112  graduates who completed the training. We have 
renewed our partnership with Code your Future , becoming 
their National partner and continuing to support them until 
2026.
 —  In Guatemala, we launched a new Digital Academy  in 
partnership with Los Patojos enabling young people aged 
18-21 in the local community to be equipped with the 
technical skills in front -end web development, WordPress 
framework Vue.js. to pursue a tech career. This year we 
supported ten students who graduated in this program.
 —  In Germany, we are driving positive change through the 
Digital Career Program in collaboration with ReDI School. 
This initiative is tailored to empower refugees by enhancing 
their tech skills and facilitating integration into the German 
job market. The program covers essential skills in Frontend 
(HTML&CSS, Javascript, React), Backend (Java, Python), Data (Data Analytics, Machine Learning), UX/UI (Figma), and Cloud 
(Azure, IoT) technologies.
 —  In Brazil, the “START” program continues to accelerate the 
training of new talents in technology, valuing inclusion, and 
diversity, with a free 6 -8  weeks online course on Java and 
Service Now. This year we successfully trained 1,246 talents 
helping them to be employable.
 —  In France, we partner with Pôle Emploi – the French 
gover nmental agency that supports training and recruiting 
unemployed people and reconversion to the IT sector. This 
year, we hired 419 individuals from the trained cohorts.
Since the inception of our first Digital Academy  in 2018, we have 
trained up to 40,032 individuals facing exclusion and welcomed 
6,967 as part of our teams.
hiring & Integration of our Digital Academy  graduates
We firmly believe that our graduates contribute to our organization’s 
diversity and embody a valuable pool of diverse talents equipped 
with top -notch skills for the market, bringing different and enriching 
perspectives to our teams. In line with this belief, we have committed 
to welcoming Digital Academy  graduates each year as part of our 
teams, offering opportunities ranging from internships to permanent 
contracts. Through all our Digital Academies  programs, we strive 
to ensure positive pathways for all our graduates, helping them 
to find job opportunities and thrive in tech careers.
In 2023, given the market uncertainties, our graduate recruitment 
encountered challenges, leading us to fall below our target. 
Nevertheless, our collaboration with HR teams across countries 
and Global Business Lines has stayed strong. And this year we have 
hired 1,086 Digital Academy  graduates within Capgemini, out of 
which 471 were women.
Moving forward, our objective is to continue skilling underserved 
individuals through our Digital Academies , and we aim to achieve 
this by fostering stronger collaboration with our clients and our 
ecosystem of partners.
2.  Applying technology for good through our Tech for 
Positive Futures  program
Capgemini’s Tech for Positive Futures  is our flagship program aimed 
at leveraging technology and the skills and passion of our people to 
create meaningful solutions and foster shared -value collaborations. 
Working closely with our network of local and global partners, 
including associations, NGOs, government bodies, international 
institutions, and clients, we bring together our teams to apply their 
skills and expertise to address pressing societal and environmental 
issues. The program is designed to apply the transformative power 
of technology in driving positive change and impacts for our people, 
planet, and society. Our three areas of focus are:
 —  health and well -being:  Leverage technology and innovation 
to address people’s physical, mental, and social conditions 
(access to healthcare, proper nutrition, regular exercise, 
mental stability, emotional balance, social connections, etc).
 —  Climate change and biodiversity:  Using technology 
and innovation to help communities adapt to a changing 
climate (flood warning systems, improved farming, 
refugees’ management, water/shortage mitigation,  etc.) 
and implement solutions to protect and restore nature and 
biodiversity.

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
social: aligned entrepreneurs with protection & respect for all
233
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI4 —  Access to education and skills development:  Leveraging 
technology and innovation to develop solutions to empower 
underse rved communities through access to education and 
digital skills empowerment/training.
Our team’s involvement in these projects ranges from providing 
financial support to offering skills and resources pro bono  to our 
partners.
Amplifying impact through shared value partnerships
From across the globe, our teams develop projects addressing 
today’s burning topics with local partners. One of our key initiatives 
is a partnership with UNICEF and Generation Unlimited (Yuwaah!) 
in India, a multi -stakeholder and global partner.
Yuwaah was launched in India and is working to focus on engagement, 
learning, skill development, and employment of young people to 
serve as the much -needed bridge between solution providers in 
the private sector, the Government of India, academia, and civil 
society organizations to fund and scale -up innovative and effective 
solutions. YuWaah has more than 140 partners – including Central 
and State Governments, Private Sector companies, industry 
associations, UN agencies, and Civil society organizations.
Capgemini India is a founding partner of YuWaah and has helped 
strengthen YuWaah by being an active member of its governance 
system and the leading development partner in building the 
platform that will reach deserving young people and open up 
employment opportunities, targeting economic independence 
for millions of young people.
In 2023, through this collaboration, Capgemini India launched 
the YouthHub platform, a platform sitting at the intersection 
of technology and innovation and serving as a cohesive space, 
seamlessly integrating diverse platforms and tools. YouthHub is 
a tailor -made single -window platform for every young person, 
keeping in mind the pressing needs and priorities of young people.
In other parts of the world, our teams have been creating an 
impact in the fields of health and well -being, climate change and 
biodiversity, and access to education and skills development:
Leveraging tech to address health and well‑being issues
 —  In Poland, we have supported the Jagoda Foundation which 
works to help people who have been burned and suffer 
from burn injury complications. The pro -bono efforts were 
focused on enhancing the administration process through 
a Salesforce -based solution. Volunteers worked on creating 
a specialized and integrated solution that meets the basic 
business needs of the Foundation. The fundamental goal 
of the project is to improve work efficiency, streamline 
organization, and ease of use of the platform by Foundation 
employees.
 —  In India, we have created an app called Maatr through pro bono  
collaboration with the Maharashtra State Health Department 
and the National Health Mission team, specifically designed 
for Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHA), is being 
impleme nted across 2  districts in Maharashtra state to 
train the local ASHA workers. The app earned accolades 
for significantly reducing their manual workload, creating 
a foundation for a future where maternal healthcare is 
efficiently delivered.
Implementing solutions to address climate change and 
biodiversity issues
 —  In France, we supported the NGO OneOcean, providing a 
participative science mobile app to collect biodiversity and 
social data to better understand territorial realities while 
uniting coastal users around the same purpose to preserve 
the ocean. The aim is also to preserve marine mammals 
through a participative App and build the missing link 
between oceans and the research world. —  In India, embarking on a transformative journey, One Planet 
Academy is now on its way to becoming a digital lab for 
environmental education as it empowers over 700,000 users. 
This platform connects educators, engages students 
through interactive resources, and sparks vital conversations 
on biodiversity and sustainability.
Developing solutions to facilitate access to education and 
skills development
 —  In India, Passport to Earning (P2E) collaborates to empower 
young people, particularly girls, by providing free, 
world -class training aligned with the National Education 
Policy (NEP) 2020. P2E achieves this by focusing on critical 
skills like digital productivity and financial literacy, offering 
flexible learning options such as online, hybrid, and offline 
models. The initiative positions individuals aged 15 -24 for 
diverse employment opportunities, bridging the skills gap 
and fostering inclusive skill development; 
 —  In Germany, in partnership with Wir für Schule gUg, we 
supported a training course in UX-Design and school 
hackath ons to promote sustainable education.
Fostering innovation through our Tech for Positive Futures  
and Global Data Science Challenges
To reinforce our commitment as a Sustainability Leader, in 2022, we 
built the second edition of the Tech for Positive Futures  Challenge 
around the topic of Environmental Sustainability, asking our 
colleagues worldwide to develop innovative solutions along with 
a not -for-profit partner supporting one of these three causes:
 —  help humans adversely impacted by climate change; 
 —  restore and protect our biodiversity; or
 —  reduce our reliance on the earth’s finite resources through a 
circular economy.
In 2023, the three winners of the challenge focused on bringing 
their ideas to life:
 —  Creating Urban Forest: Capgemini has joined forces with 
OmstillingNu to create “Miyawaki” forests, known for 
their high CO² absorption rate. Together, they developed 
a comprehensive data solution to collect, organize, and 
visualize crucial information, highlighting the benefits of the 
Miyawaki method for the stakeholders involved.
 —  Solar Powered Smart Nets: The innovative approach of 
illuminating fishing nets with glow sticks or LEDs has proven 
effective in minimizing the unintended capture of marine 
animals. In collaboration with The BEST Lab at Arizona State 
University (ASU), the team has developed and open -sourced 
a user -friendly and cost -efficient design blueprint for smart 
nets powered by renewable energy sources.
 —  E-Hive: The project aims to create a data -driven rewilding tool 
that suggests the most suitable wildflower seeds to plant 
in specific areas based on biodiversity requirements. This 
empowers individuals to contribute to rewilding initiatives 
in the UK, fostering carbon sequestration and fostering the 
thriving of bees and other pollinators.

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
social: aligned entrepreneurs with protection & respect for all
234
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT4Global Data Science Challenge (GDSC)
Every year for the last three years, the Capgemini Global Data 
Science Challenge embarked our people on a journey to run a 
data -science project by working on an actual AI use case with 
partners to develop innovative and impactful solutions to protect 
nature, biodiversity, and local communities. From deploying AI to 
track and protect endangered sperm whales to accelerating the 
cure for river blindness, the teams have pushed the boundary of 
what’s possible when the power of data and technology meets 
passion for good.
In the 2023 edition of the GDSC, Capgemini teams collaborated with 
Naturalis, the National Research Institute for Biodiversity in the 
Netherlands, leveraging their expertise, and partnered with AWS 
for Sage Maker, their scalable machine learning platform. Together, 
they addressed the critical issue of insect monitoring. The winning 
team crafted an AI-based acoustic model, achieving an impressive 
92% accuracy rate in identifying various insect species. This year’s 
GDSC drew participation from over 1,500 individuals representing 
more than 30 countries, showcasing a global commitment to 
addressing significant environmental challenges.
3.  Advocacy & thought leadership
Our Advocacy and thought leadership pillar is dedicated to  
heightening awareness around the digital divide and inspiring 
actionable solutions . At the core of this initiative lies our 
acknowledgment of the role of Digital Leaders, where we recognize 
our responsibility to shape the discourse on inclusion actively.We aim to showcase Capgemini’s leadership and meaningful 
contributions to this crucial topic in order to influence positive change 
in the digital landscape. In 2023, we sustained our collaboration 
with the Capgemini Research Institute, contributing to two thought 
leadership reports:
 —  A world in balance: h eightened sustainability awareness 
yet lagging actions:  The report highlights a significant shift, 
with executives now recognizing a clear business case for 
sustainability, tripling from 21% to 63%. Despite positive 
strides in climate action, our findings underscore a crucial 
need for improved social sustainability , revealing gaps in 
considering workers’ well -being and a lack of commitment to 
living wages among suppliers.
 —  Future -ready education: empowering secondary school 
students with digital skills:  In the report, ‘Future -ready 
education: Empowering secondary school students with 
digital skills,’ we address the critical issue of digital skills in 
secon dary education. Our research highlights a confidence 
gap among secondary school students, particularly in 
rural and low -income areas, emphasizing the need for 
governments and educational systems worldwide to 
enhance Digital Literacy  and bridge the skills gap for 
students to thrive in the 21st century.
b)  Main achievements in 2023
 Metrics 2021 2022 2023 2030 
cumulative 
targets
Digital Academy Number of Digital Academy  graduates 6,736 12,705 14,297  
Number of Digital Academy  graduates hired by 
Capgemini1,389 2,947 1,086  
Digital Literacy Number of Digital Literacy  programs beneficiaries 327,743 1,124,757 856,083  
Tech for Positive Futures Number of Tech for Positive Futures  beneficiaries 0 0 1,606,653  
Total Digital Inclusion Total number of Digital Inclusion beneficiaries  
(Digital Academy  + Digital Literacy  + Tech for 
Positive Futures )334,479 1,137,462 2,477,033  
Cumulated number of Digital Inclusion 
beneficiaries (since 2018)762,282 1,899,744 4,376,777 √ 5,000,000
Scope: 16 main countries of Capgemini group.
√ Data identified in these tables by a √ has been reviewed by Mazars with a reasonable level of assurance.
4332  Acting with and for our communities  
(main achievements in 2023)
a)  our initiatives for a positive impact
Accelerating,	replicating,	and	amplifying	welfare	initiatives	
with our Social response Unit (SRU)
In 2020, faced with the challenges of the time, Capgemini launched 
the Social Response Unit to expand its CR efforts and accelerate, 
replicate, and amplify welfare initiatives, enabling them to be 
executed in a coordinated manner to deliver social impact to a 
broader set of individuals and communities.
In 2023, Capgemini strongly committed to supporting global 
humanitarian response efforts  through internal initiatives 
and our ecosystem of partners. Our support addressed critical causes, including ongoing assistance for victims of the Ukraine 
war, earthquake relief efforts in Turkey and Syria, and significant 
aid for the Morocco earthquake:
 —  As we reached the one -year mark of the ongoing Ukraine war, 
our initial response gained strength through collaboration 
with Superhumans Ukraine, with active participation from 
Capgemini teams on -site, contributing to supporting its 
medical center, providing not only essential medical services, 
psychological support, cutting -edge prosthetics, and free 
rehabilitation to individuals injured during the conflict but 
also working collaboratively to prevent people from falling 
into distress.
 —  Regarding the earthquakes in Turkey and Syria, Capgemini 
donated to the  Red Cross and initiated employee fundraising 
to support ongoing humanitarian efforts locally.

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
social: aligned entrepreneurs with protection & respect for all
235
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI4 —  During the earthquake in Morocco, our Group played a pivotal 
role in swiftly and effectively supporting humanitarian 
organizations responding to the emergency. Collaborating 
closely with local NGOs and Capgemini teams on the ground, 
we focused on delivering crucial first aid, aiding individuals in 
distress, and ensuring on -site efficiency to provide immediate 
medical assistance. Our united efforts with the loc al NGO 
SOS Village Morocco were instrumental in implementing 
collaborative responses, offering essential support to 
orphans, mothers, and children, and providing education and 
digital inclusion assistance-all aimed at contributing to the 
long -term recovery of the affected population. 
As a responsible company, we remain committed to rising to 
humanitarian, health, and biodiversity crises as they emerge and 
addressing them to the best of our abilities through our unique 
combination of human, financial, technology & consulting resources.
Volunteering
Capgemini has consistently upheld its commitment to community 
service and fostering positive, inclusive futures. This ambition is 
enabled by our employees through volunteering and, more broadly, 
their commitment to our CR programs to drive and sustain the 
impact in local communities.
Our flagship program, ‘The Impact Together  Month,’ reflects 
Capgemini’s commitment to creating a positive impact on our 
ecosystem by giving back to communities and being change 
makers of a positive and inclusive future. In 2023, we scaled -up this 
initiative globally in 37 countries, and throughout October, over 
18,000 employees actively participated, supporting 318 NGOs to 
make meaningful impacts.
Volunteering is not limited to Impact Together  Month as our 
colleagues volunteered throughout 2023 to support our ongoing 
local Digital Inclusion initiatives. Here are some examples of the 
outstanding programs supported by our employees:
 —  In India, as part of the Apprentice project in partnership 
with the MentorMe foundation, 541  Capgemini employees 
mentored children from government schools to nurture 
socio -emotional skills and real -world exposure by using 
interest -based learning as a medium to develop relevant 21st-
century skills.
 —  In Guatemala, as part of our “Building a Sustainable 
Community – For me for All”, 135 of our volunteers united to 
pave a pathway to a better future for children in Guatemala, 
where they successfully built two classrooms and vital 
facilities, impacting 250  children with access to education 
and Positive Futures.
 —  In the UK, our volunteers are championing the Digital Unite 
initiative to increase digital inclusion awareness through 
bitesize learning across our UK employee base and through 
local charity organizations. Following this training, our 
volunteers are implementing ‘pledges’ to support the local 
community in building digital skills.
These examples demonstrate the commitment of our people to 
create a positive impact in society and on the environment. In 
2024, we aspire to continue expanding our volunteering month by 
making it even more global, including more colleagues from more 
countries to have a greater impact on our beneficiaries.b)  our initiatives to anticipate possible negative impacts
Managing	material	negative	impacts	on	affected	
communities in our operations
Our Digital Inclusion initiatives are tailored to empower marginalized 
communities in collaboration with our not -for-profit partners. 
These actions, meticulously designed, address genuine needs 
while proactively mitigating potential negative impacts. To ensure 
effectiveness, we have implemented robust processes across key 
dimensions:
 —  Partners selection:  our partner selection process, guided 
by ethics and compliance standards, underscores our 
unwavering commitment to ensuring the highest quality 
and authenticity in our impact. This thorough approach 
is designed to prevent any potential issues and aligns 
seamlessly with our values and objectives, ensuring that our 
partnerships contribute meaningfully to the communities we 
serve while upholding the highest ethical standards.
 —  Quality of Partnerships:  stringent due diligence processes 
are applied along with the Ethics and Compliance teams in 
each country for new Digital Inclusion partners, ensuring 
that partners align with Capgemini’s values and CR strategy, 
and generating positive impacts on local communities.
 —  Partnership r elationships:  we cultivate strong 
relationships within our partner ecosystem through careful 
governance overseen by key stakeholders at both country 
and Group levels. This involves transparent communication, 
trust -building, and collaborative decision -making to ensure 
the success and alignment of our Digital Inclusion initiatives. 
Clear and robust contractual agreements are established, 
with the support of legal teams, defining expectations, 
responsibilities, and objectives. This governance framework 
facilitates ongoing monitoring and evaluation of joint 
initiatives, allowing us to adapt and enhance our impact over 
time.
 —  Programs Quality:  continuous and rigorous tracking and 
monitoring of our programs are integral to maintaining 
alignment with our Digital Inclusion strategy. This approach 
serves as a crucial safeguard against social washing, ensuring 
that our  initiatives go beyond surface -level engagement to 
deliver authentic and meaningful social impact. Through a 
quarterly reporting process that engages all key stakeholders, 
we systematically evaluate the tangible impacts delivered 
to beneficiaries. This transparent and comprehensive 
assessment also helps us adapt and enhance our programs 
to ensure sustained positive outcomes for the communities 
we serve.
Our commitment to hiring Digital Academy  graduates is fortified 
by comprehensive support, encompassing mentoring and career 
guidance throughout their journey at Capgemini. This ensures they 
are thoroughly equipped for fulfilling tech career opportunities, 
whether within our organization or our partner organization.
Managing	material	negative	impacts	on	affected	
communities in our value chain
Capgemini pays particular attention to potential negative 
impacts throughout its value chain in the field of environmental 
challenges, social and employee matters, respect for human rights, 
anti -corruption and anti -bribery matters as detailed in our duty 
of care plan (refer to Section 4.5).

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
Governance: leading with trust and transparency
236
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT4The ethics helpline, SpeakUp , is open to our team members, clients, 
suppliers, and business partners to report alerts and/or ask for 
advice and guidance about actions or behavior that are not aligned with our values, our Code of Business Ethics and related Ethics 
& Compliance policies or not in compliance with applicable laws 
(Refer to Section 4.3.2.5).
44 Governance: leading with trust and transparency
441  Corporate Governance, risk and internal control
Leading with trust and transparency relies on a diverse and accountable 
Corporate Governance, informed by active engagement with 
shareholders which encourages accountability and transparency, 
and promotes good decision -making for long -term value creation 
for its shareholders and all stakeholders.
Capgemini Corporate Governance ensures the Company’s 
strategic guidance, the effective monitoring of management, and 
its accountability to the Company and shareholders. To ensure 
compliance with these principles across the Group, we have 
defined clear guidelines and responsibilities. These are supported 
by oversight and risk management systems.
The Board of Directors sets the strategic direction of the Company 
and the Capgemini group. It appoints the Executive Corporate 
Officers responsible for implementing this strategy, approves the 
financial statements, convenes the Shareholders’ Meeting, and 
proposes the annual dividend. It takes decisions on major issues 
concerning the operation and future of Capgemini.
The Board of Directors also sets the Chief Executive Officer’s 
compensation. Aligned with best practices and determined according 
to clear and quantifiable criteria, the compensation policy for the 
Chief Executive Officer includes incentives that reflect the Group’s 
strategic focus on long -term sustainable growth, with variable and 
long -term compensation linked in part to CSR criteria.
The Board of Directors seeks to implement a diverse and accountable 
governance, reflecting shared interests on the Company’s long -term 
performance. It also takes appropriate measures to nurture a 
constructive dialogue with shareholders and other stakeholders. 
It also has the responsibility of monitoring and safeguarding our 
assets by managing the Group risks, including ESG risks.Capgemini is regularly recognized for the quality of its governance 
and its best -in-class practices as a responsible business.
In 2023, Capgemini was recognized as One of the World’s Most 
Ethical Companies® by the Ethisphere  Institute for the eleventh year 
running. It was also awarded the Transparency Award on Ethics & 
Compliance by Labrador for the quality of the information published 
in relation to its Ethics & Compliance programs. 
In 2022, Capgemini was also awarded the “Sustainable Governance 
Grand Prize” by French finance media group L’AGEFI. This distinction 
rewards the Group’s strategic focus on long -term sustainable 
growth, reflecting the renewed desire of Capgemini to promote 
an exemplary, transparent and inclusive governance.
4411  Governance structure, composition and 
policies
ESG Policy priority F: Foster a diverse and accountable 
governance
The Board of Directors is committed to Corporate Governance 
best practices and policies that serve the long -term interests of 
Capgemini and its shareholders, by also taking into consideration 
the social and environmental impacts of the Group’s activities.
Our ambition is to “maintain best -in-class Corporate Governance” 
and this objective is to be measured each year using the MSCI ESG 
rating of Capgemini SE on Corporate Governance.
In addition, to sustain our priority to foster a diverse and accountable 
governance, our objective is to ensure women represent 30% of 
the Group’s Executive leadership positions in 2025. 
4412  Main achievements in 2023
a)  Corporate Governance organization
 Metric 2021 2022 2023 
Best -in class Corporate Governance MSCI ESG rating on Corporate Governance Rating 
achievedRating 
achievedRating 
achieved √ 
Scope: Capgemini group.
√ Data identified in these tables by a √ has been reviewed by Mazars with a reasonable level of assurance.
For more information on the composition of our Board of Directors and an illustration of how it operated in 2023, in line with best 
Corporate Governance practices, refer to Sections 2.1 & 2.2 .

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
Governance: leading with trust and transparency
237
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI4b)  Corporate Governance composition
 Metric 2021 2022 2023 2025 
target
Promoting gender parity in leadership 
teams% of women in Executive leadership 
positions22.4% 24.4% 26.2% √ 30.0%
Scope: Capgemini group.
√ Data identified in these tables by a √ has been reviewed by Mazars with a reasonable level of assurance.
For further information on how the Board of Directors of 
Capgemini SE ensures that there is a balanced representation 
of men and women on the Group’s management bodies, please 
refer to Section 2.1 (Company  management and administration) 
– Diversity policy for management bodies. Detailed policies and 
actions relating to diversity may also be found in Section 4.3.1.4 
(Diversity and inclusion).
c)  Chief Executive Officer’s compensation
The Chief Executive Officer’s compensation policy seeks a balance 
between short -term and long -term performance to ensure the sustainable development of the Company and aims for alignment 
between the Chief Executive Officer’s compensation and the 
Company’s performance. It includes incentives that reflect the 
Group’s strategic focus on long -term sustainable growth, with 
variable and long -term compensation linked in part to CSR criteria.
In 2023, the financial and individual performance objectives set by 
the Board of Directors for the Chief Executive Officer’s variable 
compensation were as follows, with CSR strategy (including gender 
diversity and reduction in greenhouse gas emissions) representing 
50% of the Chief Executive Officer’s personal objectives (and 20% 
of his overall variable compensation):
Amount of
the organic free 
cash ﬂow Pre-tax
net proﬁt
objec-tiveOperating
margin rate
objectiveRevenue
objective CSR strategy TalentClient
partner
Financial objectives
(60%)Personal objectives
(40% including 50% quantiﬁable)20% 20% 30% 30% 50% 25% 25%
In addition, 20% of the Chief Executive Officer’s performance 
shares granted in 2023 were tied to the Group’s 2025 diversity and 
sustainable development objectives, with each objective equally 
weighted. The diversity objective is based on a target increase 
in the percentage of women in Executive leadership positions 
by the end of 2025 to 30%, and the sustainable development 
objective concerns the carbon neutrality of our own activities by 
2025 compared to the situation in 2019, in accordance with the 
Group’s ambition.Please refer to Section 2.3.2 (Executive Corporate Officer 
compensation policy) and Section 2.3.3 (Compensation paid in 
2023 or granted in respect of 2023 to Executive Corporate Officers) 
for further information regarding the Chief Executive Officer’s 
compensation and the equity ratio.
442  Business conduct
ESG policy priority G: Maintain high ethical standards at all 
times for mutual growth
Capgemini strives to foster responsible behaviors in its daily 
business practices.
Our longstanding Ethics framework fosters our ethical culture, 
maintaining and raising awareness among employees, and helping 
them to make decisions aligned with our seven core values. These 
values inspire the ethical behaviors formalized in our Code of 
Business Ethics. Among our Values, honesty plays an essential role 
as an anchor for the rigor and discipline necessary to always comply 
with laws and regulations, as well as the internal procedures that 
govern our activities, which is reflected in the Group’s commitment 
to maintaining high ethical standards at all times including the 
following mid -term objectives:
 —  maintaining over 80% of the workforce with an Ethics Score 
of between 7 -10; and —  ensuring that, by 2030, suppliers covering 80% of the 
purchase amount of the previous year have committed to 
our ESG standards. Further details on these objectives can be 
found in Sections 4.3.2 (Ethics and Human Rights) and 4.4.2.4 
(Responsible procurement), respectively.
The Sections hereafter, dedicated to the Compliance programs 
designed and deployed by the Compliance and Legal departments, 
present these initiatives. They cover mainly:
 —  the fight against corruption and money laundering, which is 
under the responsibility of the Chief Compliance Officer; 
 —  fair competition as well as data protection, which are under 
the responsibility of the Group General Counsel; and
 —  responsible procurement, which is under the responsibility 
of the Group Chief Procurement Officer.

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
Governance: leading with trust and transparency
238
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT4Please refer to Section 4.5 for detailed information on our compliance 
with duty of care legislation ( devoir de vigilance ) and our duty of 
care plan ( plan de vigilance ) to identify risks and prevent serious violations with regard to human rights, people’s Health and Safety 
and the environment resulting from our own activities and those 
of our subsidiaries, subcontractors, and suppliers.
4421  Anti -corruption (program and main achievements in 2023)
[GRI 205 -1]; [GRI 205 -2]; [GRI 205 -3]; [GRI 415 -1]
To prevent risks of corruption and bribery, Capgemini has implemented a robust and regularly updated anti -corruption compliance 
program which has been rolled out across the Group through a dedicated organization.
Capgemini anti -corruption program is based on the following pillars.
a)  management commitment or “tone at the top”,
b)  risk assessment, and
c)  risk management. 
Disciplinary
action
Whistle
blowingThird party
due
diligenceFollow-up
of
deﬁciencies
Monitoring
(internal control
and
internal audit)Policies 
and
procedures
Awareness
and trainingCONTINUOUS
IMPROVEMENT
DETECTIONREMEDIATIONRISK MANAGEMENT
PREVENTION1 MANAGEMENT COMMITMENT
2 RISK ASSESSMENT
3 RISK MANAGEMENT
a)  Management commitment
One of our seven Values, honesty means loyalty, integrity, uprightness, 
and a complete refusal to use any underhanded method to gain 
business or any kind of advantage. For us, neither growth, nor 
profit, nor independence have any real value unless they are won 
through complete honesty and probity. Everyone in the Group 
knows that lack of openness and integrity in our business dealings 
will be immediately sanctioned.
Our zero tolerance for corruption stems from this cardinal value, 
underpinning our anti -corruption program. It is part of Capgemini’s 
commitment to society, reflected in the Ten Principles of the UN 
Global Compact, which Capgemini first signed in 2004. Member 
companies of this program support and comply with ten principles 
in the areas of environment, human rights, labor rights and the 
fight against corruption.
Clear rules and policies on the fight against corruption and bribery 
have been defined by our management (see ‘Anti-Corruption 
reference framework’ below) and are regularly promoted by our 
Chief Executive Officer. They are also part of our ESG strategy.
A dedicated anti‑corruption organization
Capgemini anti -corruption compliance program is implemented 
across the Group through a dedicated organization.The Chief Compliance Officer, reporting to the Group General 
Secretary, is responsible for overseeing the design, day -to-day 
implementation, and continuous improvement of the Group’s 
anti -corruption program. The Group Compliance central team, 
headed by the Chief Compliance Officer, can rely on a network of 
local Ethics & Compliance Officers to ensure implementation of 
the program at local level.
The Compliance Committee, a cross -functional Committee 
chaired by the General Secretary, ensures the proper and timely 
implementation of the anti -corruption compliance program in 
coordination with all corporate functions. Each function head is 
responsible for the deployment of the anti -corruption program 
within his or her function. Managers of Group Operating Units 
(SBUs/BUs), in addition to being accountable for compliance in their 
respective units, are also responsible for driving the anti -corruption 
program in line with local legislation, regulations, and procedures.
The General Counsels of the countries report to the Group General 
Counsel and serve as Ethics and Compliance Officers in their 
jurisdictions. Within their regions, they ensure implementation of the 
compliance programs, in liaison with the Chief Compliance Officer.
These principles of responsibility are enshrined in the Group’s 
internal rules known as the Blue Book.

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
Governance: leading with trust and transparency
239
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI4Board of Directors
In 2021, the Board of Directors approved the Group ESG policy, 
covering notably the Group commitment to zero tolerance for 
bribery and corruption, as part of the priority to maintain high 
ethical standards at all times for mutual growth. In addition, each 
of the Directors signed the Code of Business Ethics at the outset, 
as well as on the occasion of its last update, thus materializing 
their adherence and support (both individually and collectively) 
to all of the provisions it contains.
The Chairman of the Board, Mr. Paul Hermelin, has been entrusted 
by the Board of Directors with a mission to promote the Group’s 
values and culture and makes regular statements to this effect.
As early as 2006, the Capgemini Board of Directors set up an Ethics 
& Governance Committee, which ensures the implementation of a 
corruption and influence peddling prevention and detection system. 
The implementation of the Group anti -corruption program has 
been presented annually to the Ethics & Governance Committee 
of the Board of Directors since 2018. In addition, every year, the 
Chief Audit Officer presents the audit results of specific controls on 
compliance with the Sapin II Law in France to the Ethics & Governance 
Committee, strengthening the anti -corruption framework.
The Audit & Risk Committee of the Board confirms that the major risks 
to which the Group is exposed, such as financial, legal, operational, 
social, and environmental risks, are identified, managed, and 
brought to its attention. It monitors the roll -out of appropriate 
internal controls and risk management systems; to this end, it can 
draw on work performed by the Ethics & Governance Committee 
during the course of its duties on preventing compliance risks.
The Chairman of the Ethics & Governance Committee and the 
Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee report on their respective 
work to the Board of Directors at least once a year.
Finally, the Compliance and Legal Departments may at any time draw 
up a special report for presentation to the Chief Executive Officer 
on any matter they consider should be brought to his attention and 
inform the Audit & Risk Committee and/or the Ethics & Governance 
Committee where significant deviations have been identified.
b)  risk Assessment
The Group is responsible for identifying, monitoring and mitigating 
risks related to corruption and bribery and, accordingly, has put 
in place in -depth risk mapping methodologies and processes to 
identify and assess such risks. This methodology is designed to 
comply with the French law no. 2016 -1691 on transparency, fighting 
corruption and modernizing economic life – known as the “Sapin II 
Law” – applicable to Capgemini’s consolidated affiliates worldwide 
and the published recommendations of the French Anti-Corruption 
Agency, as well as best international practices. The Group risk map 
identifies relevant internal and external stakeholders and assesses 
possible risk scenarios considering geography, activity sector and 
aggravating factors, such as interactions with the public sector.
Following the acquisition of Altran in 2020, the Group proceeded 
in 2021 with the consolidation and update of its previously existing 
corruption risk maps, in alignment with the methodology and 
processes used for the Group enterprise risk management system 
(as further described in Chapter 3). This consolidated risk map 
covers 100% of the Group’s operations.
The Group consolidated corruption risk map has identified 
18 potential risks, including eleven critical scenarios for which 
Group action plans have been defined and are being implemented.
In addition to the Group consolidated risk map, local corruption risk 
maps exist in the countries where the Group operates. The Group is now proceeding with the review, consolidation and update of each 
of the country -level corruption risk maps. over the course of 2022 
and 2023, the Group updated local risk maps for 29 countries.
The risk mapping exercise is the basis for the risk management 
components of the Group’s anti -corruption program.
c)  risk management
Corruption risk is managed through (i) prevention actions, such 
as setting out clear policies and processes, awareness -raising and 
training of our employees and carrying out due diligence on third 
parties we interact with; (ii) detection actions, including through 
our internal reporting system, SpeakUp , and mechanisms for 
assessing and monitoring the implementation of the program; 
and (iii) remediation actions, including disciplinary sanctions in 
the event of misconduct.
1.  Anti -corruption reference framework
The Group has set up a series of clear rules and policies promoting 
the fight against corruption and bribery. The Group Code of 
Business Ethics, which clearly sets out the Group zero tolerance 
for corruption, has been communicated to all employees, as well 
as to Capgemini SE Directors.
The Group Anti-Corruption Policy, approved by our Chief Executive 
Officer, last revised at the end of 2020 and communicated to all 
Group employees, also affirms the Group zero tolerance policy and 
goes further. It presents the main corrupt practices and includes 
examples of risky situations and how to avoid them. It sets out 
requirements that apply to all Capgemini Directors, Executives, 
and employees at any level of the Group. Third parties interacting 
with a Group company are also expected to comply with the general 
principles presented. The policy presents rules to be followed when 
offering or receiving third -party entertainment, meals, gifts, and 
travel and lodging for both private persons and public officials. It 
also explains the risks and rules related to sponsorships, charitable 
donations, sales agents and consultants as well as lobbying. In 
addition, the main principles and guidelines are also incorporated 
in the latest update of the Group’s internal rules, the Blue Book, 
issued in 2023.
The Group Anti-Corruption Policy also reiterates our long -standing 
rule that strictly prohibits contributions to political organizations.
Compliance with our Group Anti-Corruption Policy is also facilitated 
by specific policies, processes and tools relating to travel and 
expenses, procurement and third -party due diligence (see below), 
by the management of conflicts of interest, and our ethics helpline 
– SpeakUp  (refer to Section 4.3.2.5).
In addition, the Group’s suppliers have been made aware of the 
Group Anti-Corruption Policy as part of their acknowledgement 
and acceptance of the Group’s Supplier Standards of Conduct (refer 
to Section 4.4.2.4 – Responsible procurement).
Our Code of Business Ethics, Group Anti-Corruption Policy, Group 
Conflict of Interest Policy, SpeakUp  Policy and Supplier Standards 
of Conduct are all publicly available on the Group’s website  
(www.capgemini.com ).
2.  Awareness -raising and training
Our commitment to zero tolerance for corruption is expressed in 
regular statements by our Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Aiman Ezzat, 
both internally and publicly. The Group regularly communicates 
with all its employees on anti -corruption topics, whether through 
global messages that are also deployed locally, podcasts, articles, 
or other internal website publications, as well as on recurring dates 
such as the United Nations’ International Anti-Corruption Day.

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
Governance: leading with trust and transparency
240
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT4The Group internal website enables employees to access relevant 
information and policies related to our anti -corruption program.
In addition to the mandatory annual e -learning on our values and 
ethical culture and the regular awareness initiatives, the Group 
has implemented since 2011 a specific anti -corruption e -learning, 
which is mandatory for all employees. In 2023, the Group updated 
its anti -corruption e -learning, highlighting the principles set out in the Group Anti-Corruption Policy and incorporating practical 
scenarios relating to the mains risks identified in our Group Anti-
Corruption risk map.
The updated e -learning was launched in May 2023 for all new hires 
as well as employees who have completed the former training 
more than 3 years previously. Going forward, each employee will 
be required to take the e -learning every three years.
 Metric scope 2021 2022 2023 
Anti -corruption policy 
e-learning% of headcount (total headcount at the end 
of the year) who completed the e -learning 
module on anti -corruption policyC 94.7%   
C+A  89.3% 94.0% 
Scope: (C) stands for Capgemini legacy (excluding Germany) and (C+A) for Capgemini group (including Germany).
Further to the integration of Altran, the Group has been reporting 
on a consolidated basis since January 2022.
The Group has also started a series of live global webinars tailored 
to its most exposed employees by function, enabling the audience 
to interact in real -time with our Group’s anti -corruption experts 
to ask specific questions related to their domains.
The Group’s awareness and training initiatives are complemented 
by local initiatives driven by SBU/BU Managers and local Ethics & 
Compliance Officers.
3.  Third Party d ue d iligence
The Group Third Party Anti-Corruption and Trade Sanctions 
Due Diligence Policy, published in 2021 and updated regularly 
since then, provides for the categorization of every third party it 
interacts with according to corruption and trade sanctions risks 
in application of a risk matrix, taking into account the following 
factors for corruption:
 —  country risk (on the basis of Transparency International’s 
Corruption Perception Index); 
 —  sector of activity (Capgemini specific methodology); 
 —  nature and purpose of the relationship.
Using this matrix, third parties are categorized as low, medium 
or high risk, with medium and high risk third parties being the 
subject of basic screening and potentially enhanced due diligence, 
if appropriate.
Due diligence involves collecting information (including basic 
screening on adverse media, sanction lists and persons politically 
exposed via service provider platforms), identifying any corruption 
or bribery risks and taking appropriate mitigation measures.
The recipients of charitable donations or sponsorships as well as 
consortium partners and sales agents/consultants are considered 
as high risk, and thus subject to due diligence and specific approval 
procedures so as to avoid any disguised corruption.
The Group also conducts appropriate anti -corruption due diligence 
on partners and target companies before entering into a joint 
venture, consortium, merger or acquisition – or, if circumstances 
require, immediately thereafter.
4.  Alert s ystem – e thics helpline ( SpeakUp )
Capgemini encourages a culture of openness where employees 
can raise their genuine concerns regarding Capgemini business 
practices in good faith and without fear of retaliation. The Group 
prohibits retaliation against anyone for raising or helping to 
address a concern.Our ethics helpline, SpeakUp , is open to our team members, clients, 
suppliers, and business partners to report alerts, including corruption 
issues. Employees may also report a possible Group Anti-Corruption 
Policy violation by raising it directly to their Manager, local Ethics 
& Compliance Officer, or a representative of the Human Resources 
department (refer to Section 4.3.2.5).
5.  Monitoring – Continuous improvement
The Group monitors its anti -corruption program, ensuring its 
implementation is effective and appropriate. Monitoring is 
conducted through the three lines of defense described in Chapter 3, 
Section 3.1.1 (Internal control and risk management systems).
As part of the second line of defense, the Group conducts compliance 
reviews of the Group’s local operations on a country -by-country 
basis, over a rolling three -year period. Since the end of 2021, the 
Group has conducted reviews of 24 countries, with the assistance of 
external consultants (lawyers, accountants, etc.), where appropriate. 
The Group plans to complete the review of all the major countries 
where Capgemini has operations by the end of 2024.
The Group has formalized controls over certain components of its 
anti -corruption program, covering the following items:
 —  employee onboarding and training; 
 —  conflicts of interest; 
 —  third party due diligence; 
 —  gifts and hospitality; 
 —  charitable donations and sponsorships; and
 —  certain accounting controls.
These controls are included in the aforementioned country 
compliance reviews. In addition, as of 2024, the Group will perform 
recurring accounting and non -accounting controls covering the 
same topics for all countries of operation.
As part of the third line of defense, Group Internal Audit conducts 
specific anti -corruption controls. Deficiencies associated with the 
implementation of procedures – and potentially reported by the 
monitoring and internal audits – are analyzed to identify their 
cause and remedied for continuous improvement of the program.
In 2023, the Group has not been the subject of any convictions or 
fines for violation of anti -corruption or anti -bribery laws.
6.  disciplinary action
Violations of our Group Anti-Corruption Policy may lead to disciplinary 
sanctions, up to and including termination of employment, in line 
with our commitment to zero tolerance of corruption. This is set out 
clearly in our policy and communicated to our Group employees.

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
Governance: leading with trust and transparency
241
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI44422  Fair competition (commitment and main 
achievements in 2023)
[GRI 2 -27]; [GRI 206 -1]
[SASB TC-SI-520a.1]
a)  Fair competition commitment
Capgemini is committed to competing vigorously but fairly with 
its competitors and conducting its business in a way guided by 
the principles of fair and open competition, in full adherence to 
applicable competition laws. The Group operates in competitive 
markets and the majority of the countries in which it operates have 
competition or antitrust laws, and trade regulations designed to 
protect such competition.
Complying with such legislation leads to better business, builds the 
trust of our clients and the general public and fosters innovation 
and excellence. It also prevents financial and reputational damages 
to Capgemini.
The commitment of our Group CEO and his management approach 
of full compliance with all applicable competition laws is embedded 
in our Group -wide Competition Laws Policy that is binding on all 
Capgemini employees and published on our external website.
1.  Policy
Capgemini’s Competition Laws Policy details the honest competition 
principles applicable in relation to all relevant stakeholders (employees, 
clients, competitors, suppliers, shareholders, partners, as well as 
society as a whole) and provides a comprehensive overview of 
unacceptable or problematic practices, including concrete scenarios 
likely to be encountered in our business and the principles to be 
followed. It also provides practical guidance and explains where 
to find support.
The Group Competition Laws process also includes checklists and 
toolkits for employees to identify and address competition law 
related matters.
2.  organization
The Group Competition Laws policy is rolled out across the Group 
through a dedicated organization.The Group legal head of competition, reporting to the Group 
General Counsel, and the local competition law subject matter 
experts in country Legal Departments lead the implementation 
of the Competition Laws Policy throughout the Group and advise 
other functions and Group employees on applicable competition 
law matters.
In addition, competition law topics are addressed in the Compliance 
Committee, a cross functional Committee which includes all 
corporate functions and is chaired by the General Secretary and 
monitored as part of the major risks mapping overseen by the 
Board Audit & Risk Committee.
3.  Training & awareness
A mandatory Competition Laws e -learning, updated in 2023, is 
taken by all new hires as well as employees who have completed 
their previous mandatory training on competition laws more than 
3 years prior. It details Group competition principles, unacceptable 
or problematic practices and practical guidance.
The Group legal head of competition and the local competition 
law subject matter experts also provide employees with training 
on competition law matters, the Competition Laws Policy and 
applicable policies.
In addition, our ethics helpline, SpeakUp , is open to our team 
members, clients, suppliers and business partners to report alerts, 
including on competition law matters.
The Group internal website enables employees to access relevant 
information, policies and available checklists and toolkits relating 
to competition law matters.
b)  Main achievements in 2023
As fair competition is of utmost importance to Capgemini, compliance 
with our policy is fully embedded in our onboarding process and 
every new employee is requested to download and acknowledge the 
policy and complete our mandatory Competition Laws e -learning.
In 2023, Capgemini did not face any fines as a result of legal 
proceedings associated with anti -competitive behavior.
 Metrics scope 2021 2022 2023 
Competition Laws policy 
e-learning% of headcount (total headcount at the end of the year) 
who completed the e -learning module on Competition 
Laws PolicyC 93%   
C+A  88% 92% 
Number of fines for 
non -compliance with 
competition lawsNumber of fines paid as a result of legal proceedings 
associated with anti-competitive behaviorC+A 0 0 0 
Total amount of fines 
for non -compliance with 
competition lawsAmount of fines paid as a result of legal proceedings 
associated with anti -competitive behaviorC+A €0 €0 €0
number of legal actions 
regarding competition 
lawsNumber of legal actions pending or completed during 
the reporting period regarding anticompetitive 
behaviors and violations of anti -trust and monopoly 
legislation in which the organization has been identified 
as a participantC+A 1* 1* 1* 
Scope: (C) stands for Capgemini legacy (excluding Germany) and (C+A) for Capgemini group (including Germany).
* These figures refer to the same procedure pending since 2018. Indeed, on November 8, 2018, Altran was subject to inspection and seizure operations by the Competition 
Authority relating to alleged anti -competitive practices in the engineering and technology consulting sectors, as well as computer services and software publishing. To 
date, the investigation is ongoing. The visit and seizure operations do not prejudge the outcome of the procedure or its possible financial consequences.

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
Governance: leading with trust and transparency
242
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT44423  Export Control and Trade sanctions
a)  export control and trade sanctions commitment
Capgemini is committed to complying with applicable export and 
import trade control laws, including sanctions and embargoes, in 
all countries in which we do business, and has adopted an Export 
Control and Sanctions Policy confirming this commitment.
Export refers not only to the shipment of material goods but also 
the oral or electronic transmission of technologies, software, source 
code, information, technical data and assistance, as well as visual 
disclosure of or access to items from abroad even if they remain in 
the home country. Such exports may be subject to trade controls 
and require prior government authorizations from one or more 
countries. In addition, transactions with or services for the benefit 
of specific territories, entities or individuals may be prohibited or 
restricted as part of international sanctions programs.
b)  organization
To promote export control and trade sanctions compliance, Group 
Legal reinforced its Export Control and Sanctions Organization 
in 2021. The Group Legal Head of Export Control is supported by 
the local export control Subject Matter Experts in country Legal 
Departments as well as by champions in other functions. The 
Export Control and Sanctions Organization leads the design and 
implementation of the Group Export Control Program, advises 
other functions on applicable regulations, and supports the bid 
and delivery teams so that our solutions are designed and provided 
in compliance with export control and sanctions laws.
The export control and sanctions program is one of the programs 
addressed in the Compliance Committee, a cross functional 
Committee which includes all corporate functions and is chaired 
by the General Secretary, and is also in visibility of the Board 
Audit & Risk Committee, as part of the major “non -compliance 
with laws” risks.
c)  Policies and processes
The Group Export Control and Sanctions Policy published in 
September 2022 and communicated to all Group employees provides 
employees with an understanding of key export control and trade 
sanctions principles, regulations and requirements, and defines 
an end -to-end export control and trade sanctions process which 
covers our suppliers and our engagements with our customers, 
from the bid phase through delivery to the termination of the 
engagement. In 2023, the process was further reinforced and 
operationalized with the support of checklists and toolkits. We 
also further implemented specific due diligence and monitoring 
on our global engagements for the benefit of clients still active in 
Russia to ensure our services comply with evolving EU and other 
applicable sanctions.
The Group Third Party Anti-Corruption and Trade Sanctions Due 
Diligence Policy, published in 2021 and updated regularly since 
then, defines the trade sanctions due diligence conducted on the 
third parties with whom we interact and includes a systematic 
screening against international sanctions lists of our clients and 
suppliers located in sensitive or very sensitive countries from a 
trade sanctions perspective.d)  Awareness raising and training
The Group Legal Head of Export Control and the local export control 
Subject Matter Experts provide training on export control and 
sanctions laws, and the Capgemini Policy and process, including 
through a specific e -learning module dedicated to employees 
exposed to export -controlled technology or technical data. The 
Group Internal website also enables employees to access relevant 
information, training materials and toolkits related to our export 
control and trade sanctions program. In addition, our ethics 
helpline, SpeakUp , is open to our team members, clients, suppliers, 
and business partners to report alerts, including export control 
or trade sanctions issues.
4424  Responsible procurement (policies and main 
achievements in 2023)
[GRI 2 -6]; [GRI 308 -1]; [GRI 308 -2]; [GRI 414 -1]; [GRI 414 -2]
a)  responsible procurement program
Capgemini mitigates the ESG and human rights impact of its supply 
chain through various evolving means of action.
Our supply chain serves our clients and ensures our internal operations 
are conducted properly. We strive to guarantee an alignment with 
our ethical standards and the expectations of our clients. For over 
ten years, the Group has had a mandatory purchase order policy 
and a Global Purchasing System, which gives a clear picture of all 
our activities from sourcing to payment.
By 2030, suppliers covering 80% of the purchase amount of 
the previous year will have committed to our es G standards.
1.  The s upplier s tandards of Conduct
Since 2015, Capgemini has implemented the Supplier Standards of 
Conduct, which formalize the standards that will be applied and 
enforced within its business relationships with its tier one suppliers. 
The terms of the Standards of Conduct define the prerequisites 
regarding ethics and compliance, Corporate Social Responsibility 
and sustainable development. They also define our policy regarding 
the terms of our trade relations with our suppliers, such as the 
mandatory purchase order as a prerequisite to any commercial 
commitment. It is critical to Capgemini that its suppliers – including 
their employees and supply chain – are committed to maintaining the 
highest ethical standards, preserving the environment and adhering 
to all applicable laws, including, human rights and anti -corruption 
laws while avoiding potential conflict of interests. Our standards 
can be met only with our suppliers’ cooperation and commitment.
The Supplier Standards of Conduct also contain provisions for 
Capgemini suppliers to flow down its requirements through their 
supply chain. The Supplier Standards of Conduct are available on 
our Group website.
The Capgemini Procurement department complies with the Blue 
Book, which includes the Group’s values, ethics, compliance and 
CSR policies and respects all the national and international legal and 
regulatory frameworks in place (refer to Section 3.1.1 – Definition 
of internal control and risk management system).

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
Governance: leading with trust and transparency
243
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI4Regarding the risks of corruption, an assessment process is included 
in the referencing and sourcing procedure, aimed at identifying 
and preventing financial and non -financial risks. If necessary, 
mitigation measures can be defined and corrective actions may 
be required. Suppliers presenting a serious risk may be excluded 
from the business transaction and blocked from the Capgemini 
Global Purchasing System.
2.  Capgemini s upply Chain es G Pledge
To meet its ESG and Human Rights targets, Capgemini needs its 
supply chain to proactively adapt and support its efforts.
In 2023, Capgemini introduced the Capgemini Supply Chain ESG 
Pledge. It aims at creating strong supplier engagement towards 
supporting the achievement of Capgemini ESG targets, by defining 
their own targets to achieve, due dates, trajectory and action plan 
to drive change to completion. It also fosters suppliers to go beyond 
assessment and reporting, by demonstrating with concrete actions 
how they conduct the necessary transformations to reach those 
targets in due time, generating value in the process.
The Capgemini Supply Chain ESG Pledge is a joint commitment, 
both for Capgemini and its suppliers. Over time, it will address 
each ESG and human rights challenge where transformation of the 
supply chain is needed. It requires suppliers to commit to achieving 
those targets that have become de facto industry standards and 
offers suppliers the opportunity to voluntarily commit to those 
additional tangible and measurable results.
The recognition of such voluntary efforts by Capgemini is an 
important stimulus for suppliers actively supporting the achievement 
of these collective targets.
3.  supplier r elationship Management Program (sr M)
Since 2015, Capgemini procurement department has been 
implementing a program to build a robust supplier base and boost 
relations with our strategic trading partners to create value for 
our clients.
Supplier Relationship Management (or SRM) is one of the main 
roles of the Procurement department, and without a doubt, 
the most impactful in the long run. It enables Capgemini and its 
strategic suppliers to align their roadmaps, optimize operational 
performance, encourage co -innovation, positively affect the total 
cost of ownership and keep risks under control, including ethical 
risks. This requires organization, clear communication plans and 
regular performance reviews covering all aspects of the commercial 
relationship to be fully aligned. It fosters trust at decision -making 
level and ensures better cooperation in achieving shared objectives.
The Capgemini Procurement department assesses all aspects of 
supplier relationships using a time, quality, responsiveness, delivery, 
cost and environment approach. It implements this program with 
the support of a digital platform so this approach can be extended 
to a wider range of suppliers.
b)  Main achievements in 2023
The Capgemini Global Purchasing System currently has around 
26,000 active suppliers and subcontractors (who invoiced 
Capgemini in 2023). Having such a large supply chain, covering 
several continents, raises a number of issues and can lead to risks. 
As such, we remain vigilant about defending human rights and 
preserving the environment.A risk assessment process for unethical reputation and more 
specifically corruption in our potential partners is now operational and 
applies to all new suppliers onboarded by Capgemini. Additionally, 
legacy suppliers, constituting a backlog to be mitigated, have been 
evaluated using the same methodology, allowing for a thorough 
review of the entire supplier database.
ESG and Human Rights Group Purchase Risk Mapping
In 2023, Capgemini led an ESG and Human Rights Risk Mapping 
exercise over its global purchases. It helped identify those 
procurement purchase categories and geographies most at risk. 
The risks were scoped on supply chain activities which may impact 
Capgemini operations and employees from ESG and Human Rights 
perspectives.
Risk mapping is the first fundamental step to identify areas which are 
more likely to be at risk and better focus our efforts and resources 
in order to mitigate risk with the right level of performance and 
efficiency.
Out of this first risk map, IT infrastructure, Business Transportation 
and Commuting, and Real Estate & Facility Management come 
out as those categories with likeliest risks of impacts, mainly in 
Asia where most products are manufactured and where most of 
our employees are located. Our large purchases of professional 
services and external resources, as well as the possible use of 
artificial intelligence, are categories also considered to be at risk 
of impacts on labor and human rights in all countries where the 
Group operates.
Based on this risk mapping we are now assessing the risk control 
maturity and planning required mitigating actions.
Focus on sustainable procurement in the United Kingdom
While the ESG and Human Rights Group Purchase Risk Map is a 
fundamental step to identify and mitigate risks and impacts group 
wide, we should highlight that such actions were already conducted 
in countries such as the UK with local scope.
Since 2010, all suppliers to Capgemini UK have been assessed 
for CSR risks. The UK Sustainable Procurement team assesses 
all new suppliers and re -assesses active suppliers annually. The 
scope includes ethics, anti -bribery, modern slavery, labor law, 
environment, Health & Safety, business continuity and social value.
In 2023, 428 suppliers, were invited to be assessed and no suppliers 
were found to be non -compliant.
Since 2016 the assessment has included risks associated with modern 
slavery and human trafficking in the UK organization and supply 
chain ensuring compliance with the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015 
and strengthening the Company’s commitment to human rights 
across the UK supply chain. The annual Capgemini Transparency 
Statement is available to all stakeholders on the Group website. It 
states that Capgemini has a zero -tolerance approach with regard to 
human rights abuse such as: forced and compulsory labor, slavery, 
servitude, and human trafficking.
Capgemini UK is committed to taking appropriate steps to detect 
and be vigilant against modern slavery in the business and the 
supply chain. Risk detection and mitigation measures are in place to 
ensure compliance and continuous improvement, such as general 
Capgemini UK population training as well as specialist training. 
The Company maintains a policy and contractual requirements 
that reserve the right to promptly terminate contracts with third 
parties who have engaged in modern slavery -related activities.

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
Governance: leading with trust and transparency
244
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT4The Supplier Standards of Conduct and ESG Standards
Suppliers covering 40% of purchase amounts from suppliers created 
in 2023, committed to the ESG Standards enforced by the Supplier 
Standards of Conduct commitments. The referencing procedure 
for our suppliers now incorporates their formal commitment to 
the terms of this code, using a fully digital process, to improve the 
way our policy is implemented in this regard.
For suppliers reluctant to commit to the Capgemini Supplier 
Standards of Conduct, a gap analysis process was designed to 
analyze potential gaps and equivalencies between the Supplier’s 
Code of Business Ethics and the Capgemini Supplier Standards of 
Conduct. Any missing provisions and standards or guarantee from 
the supplier’s Code of Business Ethics is reported in a Sustainable 
Commitment Letter to ensure equivalency of provisions. As a 
result, various forms of commitments in writing are now available.
Reducing the carbon impact of our supply chain
During the first half of 2022, we engaged with our top 100 suppliers 
in the highest greenhouse gas emitting categories of purchased 
goods and services, namely IT infrastructure, Real Estate and Facility 
Management, Travel and Mobility, to understand the maturity of 
suppliers with regards to net zero targets, capability to generate 
GHG compliant emission reports, and their current or planned 
decarbonization actions for those products and services purchased 
from them. This gave us a qualitative view of the challenges ahead, 
and the means to refine our supplier engagement strategy on data 
collection, commitments on actions, and collaboration.
From the statement of Mr. Aiman Ezzat, CEO of Capgemini, at 
Capgemini’s Supplier Day 2022 that was further highlighted at 
Supplier Day 2023, on the expected role of our supply chain in our 
Net Zero Journey, to CPO roundtables conducted once more in 
Europe in November 2023, we are creating as many opportunities 
as possible for collaboration and innovation with our suppliers and 
partners. From sharing the burden on data collection, to cross 
industry collaboration for change, to designing pragmatic new 
solutions for decarbonization, we strive to cover as many angles as 
possible. Emission reduction actions with impact will only happen 
through tight vertical and horizontal collaboration.
Following the launch of our Net Zero Contract program in July 2022, 
we created and launched in the summer of 2023 the Capgemini 
Supply Chain ESG Pledge, requiring top emitting companies to 
disclose their annual GHG emissions, set science -based targets 
validated by SBTi, share their climate transition and low -carbon 
product strategies and encourage additional voluntary actions 
yielding measurable environmental benefits. Our approach 
emphasizes engagement, supporting suppliers enhancing their 
carbon emission reduction practices and actions with impact.
Highly successful, suppliers representing 26% of our carbon emissions 
and 22% of our total spending have accepted to commit to the 
Capgemini Supply Chain ESG Pledge or are aligned to its principles 
by the end of 2023. See Section 4.2.1.3 for more information.
4425  Group Tax Policy
[GRI 207 -1]; [GRI 207 -2]; [GRI 207 -3]
As a global leader in consulting, technology services and digital 
transformation, an industry undergoing constant change, Capgemini 
operates in more than 50 countries.
Due to the international nature of its activities as well as the 
complexity and/or the absence of clarity of certain national or 
international tax regulations, the Group is exposed to tax risks. We strive to consider all existing factors in this environment in order 
to make the right tax decisions, even when there is uncertainty.
We operate within well established and publicly advocated core 
values, such as honesty and trust, and a robust internal Code of 
Ethics, and we are internationally recognized in this regard (refer 
to Section 4.3.2).
The Group’s commitment to ethical behavior is directly reflected in 
its management of fiscal affairs through the following approach:
 —  Capgemini implements a responsible, reasonable and 
coherent approach to its tax obligations, suited to its 
activities.
 —  The Group recognizes its revenue and pays its taxes in the 
countries where it is located, thus reflecting the actual value 
generated by its activities. Details of the Group’s Income 
tax expense (including the annual Effective Tax Rate) and 
Deferred taxes can be found respectively in Note  10 and 
Note 17 of the financial statements disclosed Section 5.2 of 
the present document.
 —  Tax evasion is totally against Capgemini’s values. The Group 
does not participate in aggressive or unethical tax planning. 
It does not create nor use opaque or artificial structures, 
or non -operational entities located in Non-Cooperative 
Countries and Territories as defined by French and European 
Union regulations, and continuously revises its legal structure 
to ensure it is suited to its operational needs. If, in the 
context of an acquisition, Capgemini inherits such entities, 
it is committed to either eliminating them or aligning their 
tax policy to Capgemini’s as soon as possible. It undertakes 
to apply arm’s length prices in its internal cross -border 
transactions, in accordance with internationally recognized 
fiscal principles. The Group’s tax planning is limited to 
enjoying existing tax measures and tax relief, after honest 
and objective analysis, and in accordance with the laws.
 —  The Group values also apply to relationships with the tax 
authorities. Capgemini maintains a cooperative, transparent 
and courteous relationship with them in every country. 
Capgemini undertakes to comply with tax regulations, in 
both letter and spirit, to respond within the given time limits 
to all requests from the tax authorities, to comply with all 
filing and reporting obligations and to pay its taxes on time. 
Capgemini’s tax situation and tax practices are regularly 
audited; in case of divergence of interpretation with the tax 
authorities on unclear tax concepts, Capgemini may decide 
to bring the case to litigation, based on solid grounds.
 —  Given the complexity of the fiscal context in which Capgemini 
operates, an internal Tax function monitors regulatory 
developments and provides the Group companies with the 
appropriate advice and education. This function is composed 
of a network of dedicated and experienced tax experts 
based in our main regions, which make their counterparts 
aware of tax issues and promote a good fiscal governance, 
in compliance with the Group Tax Policy. Regular interaction 
with stakeholders, combined with the appropriate 
involvement of Tax teams, ensures that potential risks are 
identified in a timely manner and that appropriate mitigation 
measures are implemented where necessary. This Tax 
function continuously assesses and adapts its resources to 
ensure that they are consistent with the needs of the Group. 
The Group Tax Head, who reports directly to Capgemini group 
Chief Financial Officer, interacts regularly with Capgemini 
Audit & Risk Committee.

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
Governance: leading with trust and transparency
245
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI4 —  Capgemini considers that the support of external tax 
advisors, which are chosen by the Group according to their 
qualifications and reputation, adds value, particularly when 
providing advice on new legislation and interpretation of 
case law. All advice thus received is reviewed internally to ensure that any resulting action complies with the Group’s 
tax principles.
The principles mentioned above, which are approved by the Board 
of Directors, apply to all entities which are part of the Group, in 
every country, and to all taxes due.
443  Data protection & Cybersecurity
esG priority h : Protect and secure data, infrastructure and identity
4431  Protect and secure data (policies, actions 
and main achievements in 2023)
[GRI 418 -1]
[SASB TC-SI-220a.1]; [SASB TC-SI-220a.2]; [SASB TC-SI-220a.3]; 
[SASB TC-SI-220a.4]; [SASB TC-SI-220a.5]; [SASB TC-SI-230a.2]
Many companies have accelerated their digital transformation, 
and the development of artificial intelligence and the Internet of 
Things contribute to the multiplication of personal data collected 
and processed. Personal data is therefore central for our clients. 
As a strategic partner, Capgemini plays a central role in ensuring 
that the personal data entrusted by its clients is processed in 
accordance with applicable regulations while making the most of 
it. Concurrently, Capgemini takes the protection of its employees’ 
personal data very seriously.
a)  risk drivers
Data plays a pivotal role in innovation and development for both 
Capgemini and its clients. Understanding and prioritizing data 
protection is not just a necessity; it is a strategic imperative that 
defines our path forward. That is precisely the reason why Capgemini 
has made it a priority for several years now. Data protection is 
a fast -evolving regulatory environment, not only because of 
newly adopted legislation but also due to the large volume of 
recommendations, opinions and decisions issued by data protection 
authorities or rulings from competent jurisdictions. This requires 
constant monitoring to ensure policies and procedures remain 
aligned with the most recent developments. As an illustration, 
2023 was marked by the adoption of Data Protection Legislation in 
India which confirms that the international landscape is witnessing 
a significant shift towards a more harmonized way to manage 
personal data beyond existing regulations like the European 
General Data Protection Regulation (“GDPR”).
In this context, clients are increasingly demanding and expect 
Capgemini to provide guarantees and have a solid program to 
ensure personal data is processed in compliance with increasingly 
stringent legal requirements.
Furthermore, due to a rise in geopolitical tensions over the last 
few years, fostering increased government surveillance, and 
state -sponsored cyberattacks, protecting personal data has 
become even more difficult. These complex factors underline the 
crucial importance of proactive risk management to guarantee the 
confidentiality of personal data on a global scale.
b)  Group d ata Protection Policy
Capgemini has adopted and implemented a Group Data Protection 
Policy, also known as Binding Corporate Rules (BCR). These BCR 
were approved by European data protection authorities back in 
2016. They were updated subsequently (i) in 2019 to reflect the 
requirements set out under the General Data Protection Regulation 
2016/679 and (ii) in 2023 to address the European Data Protection 
Board’s updated requirements in particular further to the so -called 
Schrems II  decision ruled by the Court of Justice of the European 
Union. This Group Policy is binding on all Capgemini employees and entities whatever their location and sets the minimum standards 
according to which Capgemini shall collect and further process 
personal data.
Capgemini is intent on processing personal data on behalf of its 
clients strictly according to their instructions and in compliance 
with the agreement in place. As data protection is a fast -evolving 
regulatory practice, the Group monitors changes in legislation 
to incorporate them into its compliance program; where local 
legislation provides any additional requirements other than those 
reflected in the BCR, Capgemini shall comply accordingly.
1.  Governance & organization
This policy is implemented by a robust network of Data Protection 
Officers across the countries and regions where Capgemini 
operates, led by a Group Data Protection Officer. More than 70% 
of our Data Protection Officers are certified by the International 
Association of Privacy Professionals. This network is supported 
by champions representing the functions and Global Business 
Lines, who are responsible for adapting the Group policy within 
their respective scopes. This extended network supports the Data 
Protection Officers in making sure that the Group Data Protection 
Policy and the related procedures are implemented within their 
respective scope. In order to ensure that our Data Protection Policy 
is fully implemented, and its principles embedded within business 
processes, the Group Data Protection Office provides customized 
content, therefore rationalizing our approach to data protection.
2.  Training & awareness
Since it is essential to continuously train employees in data 
protection to build digital confidence, our data protection training 
is mandatory for all employees upon their onboarding and they are 
required to take it again at regular intervals. The Group also offers 
targeted training courses for certain functions to address their 
specific needs and ensure they can leverage key data protection 
notions in their day -to-day activities.
3.  risk management & controls
Capgemini has adopted a data subject rights management 
procedure for several years to manage the increase in the number 
of data subject requests. The Group has also implemented a risk 
management strategy which encompasses different levels of 
controls to monitor Capgemini data protection compliance in 
the entire life cycle of personal data processing. This includes a 
thorough strategy designed for monitoring data protection risks 
at engagement level.
One of the most important procedures defined and implemented 
under the BCR is the notion of Privacy by Design. It aims to protect 
individuals by incorporating confidentiality right from the outset 
when developing products, services, business practices and 
physical infrastructures. Capgemini’s privacy by design approach 
has helped the Group ensure full transparency regarding data 
subjects, especially on how we process personal data. This also 
enables further monitoring and ensures that Capgemini does not 
process personal data for purposes other than those for which it 
initially collected the data, without having a valid legal basis and 
informing data subjects accordingly.

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
Governance: leading with trust and transparency
246
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT4Control measures such as processing registers for data controller 
and data processor activities, a defined maximum data storage 
period or the end -to-end assessment of project maturity in terms 
of data protection have therefore been implemented.
Self-assessment and independent controls are managed at different 
levels and are designed to assess the different dimensions of our activities both as controllers and processors. Capgemini also rolls 
out an extensive campaign of engagement audits.
Finally, Capgemini’s Data Protection Officers network works closely 
with the cybersecurity community to ensure a strong and consistent 
approach on how personal data is processed and further protected.

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
Governance: leading with trust and transparency
247
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI4c)  Main achievements in 2023
 Metrics scope 2021 2022 2023 
General training on data 
protection% of headcount (total headcount at the end of the 
year) who completed the e -learning module on Data 
protectionC 91%   
A 74%   
C+A  89% 96% 
data subjects’ rights 
requestsNumber of requests from individuals or 
organizations, exercising their rights under the 
GDPRC+A 285 440 435 
number of users whose 
information is used for 
secondary purposesNumber of users whose information is intentionally 
used for a purpose that is outside the primary 
purpose for which the data was collectedC+A 0 0 0 
number of public 
authorities requests for 
user informationNumber of public authorities requests for user 
informationC+A 0 0 1 
number of users whose 
information was requested 
by public authoritiesNumber of users whose information was requested 
by public authoritiesC+A 0 0 1 
Percentage of public 
authorities requests 
resulting in disclosure of 
information% of public authorities requests (annual number of 
requests) resulting in disclosureC+A 0% 0% 0% 
number of law 
enforcement requests for 
user informationNumber of law enforcement requests for user 
informationC+A 0 0 5 
number of users whose 
information was requested 
through law enforcementNumber of users whose information was requested 
by agencies and employees responsible for 
enforcing laws, maintaining public order, and 
managing public safetyC+A  0 5 
Percentage law 
enforcement requests 
resulting in disclosure of 
information% of law enforcement agencies requests (annual 
number of requests) resulting in disclosureC+A  0% 40% 
Breaches of Customer 
PrivacyNumber of substantiated complaints concerning 
breaches of customer privacy and losses of 
customer dataC+A 0 0 0 
Data breaches notified 
to d ata Protection 
AuthoritiesNumber of data breaches notified as data controller 
to competent Data Protection AuthoritiesC+A 4 9 4 
Total amount of monetary 
losses as a result of legal 
proceedings associated 
with user privacyAmount paid to individuals or organizations in 
the context of a data protection claim against the 
Company processing their personal dataC+A €0 €0 €0 
Client engagements 
maturity monitoring% of revenues associated with client engagements 
triggering processing of personal data subject to an 
end -to-end digital maturity assessmentC+A 78% 79% 79% 
DPO Certification % of DPO (number of DPO at the end of the year) 
certified with one of the external official certifying 
bodies (worldwide scope)C+A 57% 65% 72% √ 
Scope: (C) stands for Capgemini legacy, (A) stands for Altran legacy and (C+A) for Capgemini group.
√ Data identified in these tables by a √ has been reviewed by Mazars with a reasonable level of assurance.

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
Governance: leading with trust and transparency
248
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT44432  Group Cybersecurity
[SASB TC-SI-230a.2]
a)  strategy, governance and policy
Cybersecurity strategy
Capgemini cybersecurity strategy addresses cyber risks with a 
comprehensive Board -sponsored governance and program.
To this end, the Group Cybersecurity Department reports to the 
Group Executive Board and is tasked with anticipating, preventing, 
and mitigating cyber risks. The Department aims to ensure 
implementation of necessary and tailored preventive/protection 
and detection/response measures across the organization. This 
includes alignment and support with the Group Data Protection 
program to ensure the Data Security policy is managed and Security 
Incident and Data Breach Management policy is enforced.
From a strategic standpoint, Capgemini’s ESG Policy released in 
November 2021 confirms Capgemini ambition to be a “Front leader 
in Cybersecurity & Data Protection”.
On a continuous basis, the Group has engaged a deep transformation 
of its cybersecurity model addressing architecture, process and 
people to keep pace with ever changing cybersecurity threats. 
This is aligned with business transformation such as Intelligent 
Industry, Move to cloud and Artificial Intelligence. The three pillars 
of this transformation are:
 —  enhanced cybersecurity capabilities: to tackle the skill gap 
in the cybersecurity domain, we accelerate automation in 
monitoring processes, develop a group -wide Cybersecurity 
community, a follow -the-sun security operation center 
and the introduction of Artificial Intelligence and Machine 
Learning; 
 —  “Security by Design” in Delivery: to provide actionable 
practices that support client facing services and activities, 
underpinned by the cybersecurity framework and leverage 
on experience in managing clients from diverse industries & 
operating globally; 
 —  transition to Zero Trust architecture, adopting Single Identity, 
Micro-Segmentation and Conditional access to applications.
Group Cybersecurity leaders actively engage with external 
stakeholders – investors (ESG Policy event), insurers, non -financial 
rating agencies ( Dow Jones Sustainability Index ) – to demonstrate 
how the strategy is deployed and how cyber risks are accurately 
assessed, mitigated and reported.
Cybersecurity governance
The Group Cybersecurity Department is headed by the Group 
Chief Information Security Officer, reporting to a member of the 
Group Executive Board. The central team comprises three domains 
dealing with:
 —  Governance, r isk and Compliance : Rolling out a risk -based 
and programmatic approach to enhancing the cybersecurity 
posture of the Group. This approach involves designing, 
maintaining and implementing a group -wide Cybersecurity 
Management System, as well as assessing, tracking 
and supporting the improvement of policy framework 
compliance across units. —  Transformation:  establishes, promotes and ensures 
adoption of new technologies, best practices and principles 
ensuing “security by design” and responding to threats.
 —  Cyberdefense operations : anticipates, oversees, manages, 
and b uilds a consistent global response to monitoring threats 
and cyber -attacks, managing cyber incidents and crisis.
The Cybersecurity community is the foundation of our operating 
model to deploy and enforce Group Policy framework, collaborate 
on joint initiatives and projects and manage cyber incidents. 
Altogether, the internal Cybersecurity community groups around 
500 professionals located in 30 countries. This community includes 
the Group’s Cybersecurity Department and:
 —  the Group Cyber Chief Information Security Officer (Group 
CISO) and Group Cybersecurity function; 
 —  the CISO in the IT Department, responsible for the 
deployment of the policies, standards, projects, solutions 
and processes guaranteeing security of workstations, data, 
systems, networks and applications; 
 —  the CISOs in Strategic Business Units and Global Business 
Lines, who are responsible for the deployment of the policies 
within their organization. Information Security Officers 
interact with the local Data Protection Officer and national 
authorities; 
 —  the Delivery Security Managers of strategic clients, who 
guarantee the application of Group policies & controls and 
compliance with contractual commitments. 
In addressing specific challenges related to privacy and data 
protection, Group cybersecurity actively contributes to the Data 
Protection Program.
Cybersecurity policies
The Group Cybersecurity Policy Framework is a set of documented 
requirements implemented (aligned to ISO 27001, NIST and CIS) 
uniformly in all operating countries, based on international standards 
and enforced in every entity.
In addition, mandatory technical guidelines and standards support 
the implementation of each policy to secure data, endpoints, 
networks, systems and applications.
ISO 27001 certification is mandatory for Delivery centers and 
data centers. In 2023, Group Cybersecurity successfully attained 
the ISO 27001 certificate (Embryo certificate) for itself. Group 
Cybersecurity is progressing on aligning all entities (existing 
86 certificates) under one global ISO 27001 certification, for 
operational efficiency, cost optimization and alignment with 
industry leaders’ standards.
b)  Main achievements in 2023
Based on the strategy, governance and policy framework, the Group 
continuously improves the security of its tangible & intangible 
assets and compliance with its contractual commitments.
This is demonstrated with our Cyber-Risk Score Card including 
multiple metrics showing the cybersecurity posture (Group wise 
and Unit -wise). It is reported to the Group Executive Board and 
each entity Management Board to demonstrate progress and 
define required actions.

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
Governance: leading with trust and transparency
249
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI4In 2023, the Group’s risk score card was recalibrated raising the 
bar to push for improvement, End of 2023 this recalibrated score 
reached 83+ points (our of 100).
In alignment with our three -year program set up based on the three 
pillars (Zero trust, enhanced cyber operating model, Security by 
design), our main 2023 achievements are as follows:
 —  Zero Trust – built and deployed an architecture on “Zero 
Trust Model” transforming Identity and Access Management, 
contextual access and micro -segmentation;  —  Complete Transformation cyberdefense operations – 
deployed and managing a next-Generation security operation 
center (SOC); working on “follow -the-sun” operating 
model harnessing the latest technology advancements in 
Automation, Machine Learning, and Threat Intelligence; 
 —  Achi eve initial global ISO 27001 certification as a prerequisite 
for a future global ISO 27701 certification.
Since 2019, the Group Cybersecurity Department performs an annual 
Baseline Policy compliance review across all units. The results are 
reported to the Group Chief Information security Officer, the units 
and the Group Executive Board.
Metric 2021 2022 2023 
Level of compliance with the Group Cybersecurity Baseline Policy (grade out of 10) 8.1 8.3 8.5 
Scope: Capgemini group.
In 2023 we introduced the Compliance Index which encompasses 
all ISO 27001:2013 controls (in 2024 to be updated to encompass 
ISO 27001:2022 controls) a pivotal step in our global certification journey. This Compliance index will be replacing Baseline Policy 
Compliance starting 2024.
Metric 2022 2023 
Compliance Index  8.4 
Scope: Capgemini group.
Group has launched a new mandatory Global Cybersecurity online 
module in 2023, focusing on the latest cyber challenges and their 
countermeasures. Phishing simulation tests to evaluate effectiveness 
of our awareness program, are in place to ensure a uniform, 
standardized, and optimized process across the organization. Additionally, these tests are conducted at critical client projects as 
well. the escalation process to disable a new hire’s account in case of 
non -completion of the mandatory training within the 45 next days 
after joining the Group has started rolling out in several entities 
following the release of the new mandatory modules.
Metric scope 2021 2022 2023 2025 
target
% of headcount (total headcount at the end of the year) who 
completed the mandatory e -learning module and training program 
on Cyber riskC 95.5%    
A 75.0%    
C+A  90.5% 96.7% 95%
Altran numbers presented include Altran training which is retaken each year by all employees.
Scope: (C) stands for Capgemini legacy, (A) stands for Altran legacy and (C+A) for Capgemini group.
Metric scope 2021 2022 2023 2025 
target
% of new hires (number of new hires during the year) who completed 
the mandatory Cyber risk awareness -raising and training programC 96.2%    
A 44.0%    
C+A  88.6% 97.7% 95%
Altran numbers presented include Altran training which is retaken each year by all employees.
Scope: (C) stands for Capgemini legacy, (A) stands for Altran legacy and (C+A) for Capgemini group.
The ISO 27001 certification of the operation centers and sensitive 
facilities is mandatory and monitored at Group level. In 2025, 
Capgemini aims to have 98% of its activities covered by ISO 27001 certification. In 2023, we achieved a global ISO 27001 certification 
including operations centers and sensitive facilities from multiple 
units and regions.
Metric scope 2021 2022 2023 2025 
target
% of operation centers and sensitive facilities at the end of the year, 
ISO 27001 certifiedC 88%    
A 32%    
C+A  94.7% 94.8% 98%
Scope: (C) stands for Capgemini legacy, (A) stands for Altran legacy and (C+A) for Capgemini group.

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
Governance: leading with trust and transparency
250
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT4Cyber Ratings
Since 2019, several external Cyber Rating agencies have been 
used to expand visibility of the Group Cyber Risk posture. These 
agencies deliver a periodic rating of Capgemini Information Security 
Management System (internal) and cyber posture of its external 
facing assets. These ratings are reported monthly and presented 
to the Group Executive Board.
In 2023, Capgemini observed consistent trends of significant 
improvement from all Cyber Rating agencies, except for one, mainly 
attributed to changes in its rating methodology. To standardize 
ratings across all agencies, a normalization process was initiated. Starting in 2023, individual scores from external cyber ratings 
are adjusted to an average score on a scale of 0 -100, ensuring a 
consistent and broad -based fair trend regardless of individual 
rating models. It resulted in:
 —  External Procedural Cyber Risk Index: comprised of 
CyberVadis and CyberGRX score based upon analyses of 
questionnaires, document reviews and interviews; 
 —  External Technical Cyber Risk index: Comprised of RiskRecon, 
BitSight a nd Security scorecard scores based upon 
automated scans performed on our external assets.
Metrics 2021 2022 2023 2025 target
external r isk Index – Procedural   97.6 95
external r isk Index – Technical 70.7 79.7 84.3 85
Scope: Capgemini group.
Findings reported by the individual agencies continue to be validated 
and mitigation plan are executed.The objective for CyberVadis is to maintain our score between 
925 -940 and remain in the top 3% performers, bearing in mind 
that the rating criteria are evolving each year, thus raising the bar.
Metric 2021 2022 2023 2025 target
Cyber r ating agencies – Cyber vadis score (out of 1,000) 929 942 958 √ In the top 3% 
performers
Scope: Capgemini group.
√ Data identified in these tables by a √ has been reviewed by Mazars with a reasonable level of assurance.
In 2023, our score improved above 8.0, exceeding the average of our top ten competitors. In 2025, Capgemini aims to reach an A rating 
which indicates a score of 8.5 or above.
Metric scope 2021 2022 2023 2025 target
Cyber r ating agencies – r iskrecon score  
(out of 10, 6 -month average)C 7.3 (B)    
A 7.9 (B)    
C+A  7.7 (B) 8 (B) √ A rating
Scope: (C) stands for Capgemini legacy, (A) stands for Altran legacy and (C+A) for Capgemini group.
√ Data identified in these tables by a √ has been reviewed by Mazars with a reasonable level of assurance.
In 2023, our score was impacted by changes into algorithms used 
resulting in a slight drop of score. We maintained our position 
in exceeding the average of our top ten competitors. In 2025, Capgemini aims to reach an Advanced rating which indicates a 
score of 740 or above.
Metric scope 2021 2022 2023 2025 target
Cyber r ating agencies – Bit sight  
(out of 900 – 6 -month average)C 580 –  
Basic   
A 640 – 
Intermediate   
C+A  730 –  
Basic718 – 
Intermediate √ 740+/900 – 
Advanced
Scope: (C) stands for Capgemini legacy, (A) stands for Altran legacy and (C+A) for Capgemini group.
√ Data identified in these tables by a √ has been reviewed by Mazars with a reasonable level of assurance.
During 2023, our score was consolidated, exceeding the average 
of our top 10 competitors. In 2025, Capgemini aims to sustain that position and improve our score by reaching an A rating which 
indicates a score of 90 or above.
Metric 2022 2023 2025 target
Cyber r ating agencies – s ecurity scorecard (rating) A A A
Scope: Capgemini group.

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
Compliance with duty of care legislation (devoir de vigilance) 
251
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI445  Compliance with duty of care legislation  
(Devoir de vigilance)  
451  Scope and methodology
Since 2017, further to the statute no. 2017 -399 covering the duty of 
care ( devoir de vigilance ) of parent companies and purchasers, it is 
mandatory for French companies with more than 5,000 employees 
to develop and implement a reasonable plan ( plan de vigilance ) 
to identify risks and prevent serious violations with regard to 
human rights, people’s Health and Safety and the environment, 
resulting from its own activities and those of their subsidiaries, 
subcontractors and suppliers.Meeting our duty of care obligations is a long -term commitment 
subject to continuous improvement. Accordingly, in 2023 we have 
built on our previous achievements to focus on following our risk 
action plans and establishing an approach for the assessment of 
our supply chain.
452  Duty of care plan
In 2021, the Group set up a specific Steering Committee which 
includes representatives of various functions (human resources, 
security, real estate, Corporate Social Responsibility, procurement 
and ethics and compliance), which updated the Group’s duty of 
care ( plan de vigilance ) plan as follows.a)  risk Mapping
The Group identified its risk areas as regards both ESG and duty of 
care topics through a group risk mapping exercise, last updated in 
2021 and aligned with the general Group risk methodology. This 
updated risk mapping exercise identified the ESG risks also relating 
to the Group’s duty of care in the following areas concerning the 
Group (including its subsidiaries) and/or its supply chain (for more 
details, refer to Sections 3.2.3 and 4.1.4.1).
esG risks scope
Health & Safety  
Country political risk & natural disasters (climate change adaptation)* Group
Personal security and occupational safety risks* Group
Human Rights  
Non -compliance with labor or environmental laws Group/Supply Chain
Unethical Business Group/Supply Chain
Diversity Group/Supply Chain
Deterioration of Labor relations Group
People  
Insufficient development and maintenance of skills* Group
Failure to attract, develop and retain and/or loss of key talents and Executives/Managers* Group
Environment  
Climate change-Transitional risk* Supply Chain
* These risks have been identified as priority risks requiring specific attention and action plans.
In addition, the Group also has established a specific human rights 
sub-risk map (refer to Section 4.3.2.4), a specific assessment on 
climate related risks as set out in detail in Section 4.2.1.2 as well 
as a biodiversity impact assessment as described in Section 4.2.2.2 
(b) and a risk assessment of its global procurement categories as set out in Section 4.4.2.4. These risk mapping exercises serve as 
a basis for the various components of the Duty of Care program 
described hereafter.

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
Compliance with duty of care legislation (devoir de vigilance) 
252
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT4b)  evaluation Procedures
The Group has set up the following evaluation procedures:
Topic Procedures
environment With respect to environmental risks, Capgemini has in place an Environmental Management System (ISO 14001 
certificate) which allows us to identify and manage this category of risks, in compliance with the national 
and international regulatory frameworks in force and its own objective covering 34 countries. In addition 
Capgemini also has in place a global ISO 50001 Energy Management System and a Carbon Accounting System.
Please refer to Section 4.2.1.1 for more details.
human rights We remain vigilant about defending human rights. The importance that we attach to suppliers’ relationships 
is reflected in all the guidelines related to selecting and managing our suppliers and their ethics.
We have launched an initiative to assess our own operations on a country by country basis as regards human 
rights, starting with a pilot test in India where we have 50% of our workforce (see Section 4.3.2.4).
Specific initiatives have also been created and implemented to ensure compliance with the UK Modern Slavery 
legislation and the Australian Modern Slavery legislation, which includes specific diligence screening of suppliers.
We also regularly solicit employee feedback as part of the ethical and culture survey through the Group’s 
monthly Pulse survey (see Section 4.3.1.3 (4)).
health & s afety The Group holds a global ISO 45001 Health and Safety management system certificate covering Germany and 
the Netherlands with local ISO 45001 certificates in India and Italy as set out in Sections 4.2.1.1 and 4.3.1.7
Furthermore, various surveys are periodically carried out to gather data and assess employee experience, 
such as quality of life survey, remote working survey… (see Section 4.3.1.3 (4))
responsible 
PurchasingThe Group’s procurement team has put in place strong procedures and policies covering the evaluation of its 
supply chain as further described in Section 4.4.2.4.
c)  Appropriate actions in order to mitigate the risks and prevent serious harm
For each priority risk identified in the Group risk mapping, a group owner and an action plan has been established to complement the 
many programs already in place to mitigate risks in these areas, including the following:
Topic Action plans
environment Please refer to Section 4.2 for complete details on the Group’s environment program.
ethics and h uman 
rightsThe Group has put in place strong Ethics and Human Rights programs as set out in Section 4.3.2, including 
a Code of Business Ethics, Human Rights Policy, a Code of Ethics for Artificial Intelligence and associated 
training, providing a clear framework for the Group and its employees to continue protecting and upholding 
human rights.
In addition, Capgemini’s commitment to the eradication of modern slavery is evidenced in its transparency 
statements in the United Kingdom and in Australia.
Diversity and non -discrimination initiatives are set out in Section 4.3.1.4.
People – e mployee 
developmentTalent attraction and retention programs as well as training and career development programs as set out in 
Section 4.3.1.3.
Group Employee relations policy as set out in Section 4.3.1.5.
Diversity and Inclusion initiatives as set out in Section 4.3.1.4.
health & s afety Health, safety and well -being programs set in Section 4.3.1.7.
 —  Health & Safety at work
 —  Health & Safety after the pandemic
 —  Health & Safety on non-Capgemini sites
 —  Health & Safety when traveling in high -risk countries
 —  Well -being, including transforming the workspace
d)  Whistleblowing mechanism and reporting system
The ethics helpline, SpeakUp , is open to our team members, 
customers, suppliers, and business partners to report alerts and/
or ask for advice and guidance about actions or behavior that:
 —  are not aligned with our values, our Code of Business Ethics 
and related Ethics & Compliance policies;  —  not in compliance with applicable laws; or
 —  may significantly affect vital interests of Capgemini and its 
affiliates refer to Section 4.3.2.5 for more details.
Our suppliers have been informed of the availability of the Group’s 
helpline ( SpeakUp ) in the Supplier Standards of Conduct (refer to 
Section 4.4.2.4).

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
reporting scopes and methodologies
253
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI4e)  Monitoring and e valuation s ystem
Monitoring the Group’s duty of care is part of the Group’s Ethics and 
Compliance programs – for more details on ethics and compliance 
governance see Sections 4.3.2 and 4.4.1.
In addition to the above, a specific Steering Committee has been set 
up to review the risk mapping and associated action plans, as well 
as monitor the progress of initiatives undertaken under the Duty of Care program. The Steering Committee includes representatives 
of various functions (human resources, security, real estate, CSR, 
procurement and ethics and compliance).
The Group has set up a non -financial reporting system including 
key performance indicators to measure the results of the policies 
implemented throughout the Group, including the subsidiaries 
(refer to Section 4.6.3. – Non -financial performance indicators).
46  Reporting scopes and methodologies
461  Alignment with French legal requirements on the Déclaration  
de performance extra‑financière  
Following the implementation in France of European directive 
2014/95/EU of October 22, 2014 with regards to the disclosure of 
social and environmental information (July 19, 2017), Capgemini 
publishes its statement on non -financial performance in its 
management report.
As a listed company, Capgemini must disclose in the 2023 report 
its action plan to measure the social and environmental impacts of its activities, including information on the consequences of its 
activity on human rights and on the fight against corruption and 
tax evasion.
The following information (required by Article L. 225 -102.1 of the 
French Commercial Code) has been not disclosed since it does not 
apply to Capgemini group: combating food waste and food insecurity, 
promoting animal welfare and responsible food production.
The non‑financial 
information to  
be disclosed sections of the report in which the information is disclosed
The Company’s 
business model, 
including key resources, 
main activities, main 
achievements, strategyCapgemini’s business model highlights our value creation model and resources.
For more information on our main activities, our markets & competitive environment, our offers, our strategic 
partners, our stakeholders and our business strategy, refer to Chapter 1 of this document. 
The main non -financial 
(ESG) risks related 
to the Company’s 
activity or the use of its 
products and servicesIn 2020, we established non -financial risk mapping (consolidated in 2021 following stakeholder consultation) 
to meet the requirements of Article R. 225 -105 of the French Commercial Code (Non-Financial Reporting 
Directive) and the French law on duty of care, leveraging the work performed earlier. The Group Compliance 
and Risk Management departments approved this approach.
The main risks related to the activity of the Company are presented in three Sections:
 —  Section 3.2.1 (Chapter 3) : Presentation of the Group critical risks to be disclosed in the non -financial 
performance reporting (including emerging ESG risks); 
 —  Section 4.1.4.1 (Chapter 4) : Presentation of ESG Capgemini ESG risk mapping; and
 —  Section  4.2.1.2 (Chapter 4): Impacts of climate -related risks and opportunities for our business.
The policies 
implemented to 
manage these risks 
(including due diligence 
procedures, where 
applicable)In Chapter 4, and for our material topics, we detail our strategy, policies and mid -long term targets:
 —  Section 4.2 – Environment  highlights our policies on Climate change adaptation and mitigation, and 
other environmental challenges. It includes information on Taxonomy.
 —  Section 4.3 – Social  describes our policies to generate positive impacts for our stakeholders 
(own workforce, stakeholders in our value chain and local communities. This Section outlines our 
commitment to human rights and ethical behaviors.
 —  Section 4.4 – Governance  emphasizes our policies on business conduct, responsible procurement, data 
protection & cybersecurity.
 —  Secti on 4.5 – Duty of care includes due diligence procedures.
The actions 
implemented during 
the year and the results 
of these policies, 
including performance 
indicatorsFor each ESG material topic, we detail in the same Sections, actions implemented during the year, and 
main results.
 Sect ion 4.6.3 lists non -financial KPIs.

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
reporting scopes and methodologies
254
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT4462  Methodology and scope of sustainable performance indicators
[GRI 2 -2]; [GRI 2 -3]; [GRI 2 -4]
4621  Reporting organization, period and scope
reporting organization:  The ESG reporting organization is designed 
to enable the Group to manage and measure the effectiveness of its 
ESG policy. The ESG reporting team coordinates the contributions 
from Group functions who remain responsible for collecting data 
and disclosing information on policies they are in charge of.
reporting period:  the data are reported on a calendar year basis 
from January 1st to December 31st, 2023.
reporting scope:  in 2023, the scope of reporting covers the 
Capgemini group and is aligned with financial reporting. ( Refer to 
Chapter 5 – Note 33 for the list of the main consolidated companies, 
and Chapter 8 for additional information) .
We present the key non -financial indicators for each material topic 
(see Section 4.6.3) according to the following structure:
 —  results for 2022 ; 
 —  results for 2023 ; 
 —  mid/long- term targets as defined in the ESG policy.
Non -financial information is disclosed:
 —  regarding the environmental related topics, for 2019 
(Baseline), 2022 and 2023; 
 —  regarding the Social and Governance related topics, for the 
last three years (2021, 2022, 2023).
For any significant change between 2022 and 2023, explanations 
are provided.
Restatements of information made from previous reporting periods 
are reported and explained in Sections.
Consistency checks and trend analysis are performed regularly to 
guarantee the quality of data, and in case of doubt or inaccuracies, 
corresponding data is excluded.
4622  Scope, sources, methodologies and accuracy 
of environmental sustainability reporting
We measure and track our environmental impact through our 
global carbon accounting program. This process is facilitated by a 
web -based carbon accounting tool through which we gather more 
than 10 million data points every year, enabling us to analyze our 
data to a very granular level.
Data on our environmental impacts (energy usage, business 
travel, F-gas, waste and water) is collected monthly or quarterly 
from 40 countries representing 99.8% of Group headcount, with 
estimated data for the remaining 0.2% of our operations. Data on 
commuting and working from home is mostly gathered annually 
through the implementation of a global survey. Data on our 
purchased goods and services is gathered annually in collaboration 
with the Group Procurement team. Actual data on waste and water 
is collected where feasible (66% of waste data and 84% of water 
data is based on actual data), but is estimated where not available. 
One central team manages the data processing and validation, 
to ensure consistent, high quality and accurate data is available 
across the Group.Our Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions are calculated following 
the methodology outlined by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol 
Corporate Reporting and Accounting Standard, using an operational 
control approach. Our Group -wide commitment to improving our 
environmental performance is underpinned by a set of environmental 
targets which are validated by the Science Based Targets initiative 
(SBTi) as being in line with the Corporate Net-Zero Standard. These 
targets cover our entire global operations.
GHG emissions for Scope 1 energy and F-gas, Scope 3 travel and 
commuting and Scope 3 waste and water are calculated using the 
emission factors recommended by the UK Government’s Emission 
Factors. GHG emissions for category 3.1 Purchased Goods and 
Services are calculated mostly using spend -based emission factors 
sourced from Exiobase, ADEME, US EPA and the UK Government. 
For two specific categories, professional services and external 
resources, we have developed bespoke emission factors based on 
internal Capgemini data, as we found that our external contractors’ 
emissions profiles are closer to the Capgemini average than the 
spend -based factors. In addition, where available we have used 
supplier -specific data sourced from CDP and from publicly available 
product carbon footprints (for hardware products in particular). 
Emissions from co‑working  spaces are included in category 
3.1 Purchased Goods and Services.
For Scope 2 electricity, as per the GHG Protocol, we calculate emissions 
in two ways, using both the market -based and the location‑based  
approach. The greenhouse gas emission data tables that we present 
in the URD are on the basis of market -based emissions in the main 
table, with location‑based  emissions specified in the table.
 —  Market‑based  emissions are calculated using supplier -specific 
emission factors where possible. Where these are not 
available, we have used a residual fuel mix factor, sourced 
for from RE-DISS for countries in Europe and from green-e.
org for US and Canada. For a few smaller entities, we 
have assumed an emission factor of 0 for electricity 
purchased on renewable energy tariffs and/or backed up 
by energy attribute certificates. In locations where neither 
supplier -based nor residual fuel mix factors are available, we 
have used a location‑based  emission factor.
 —  For the location‑based  approach, regional electricity emission 
factors have been applied for India (Central Electricity 
Authority), the UK (BEIS), Australia (NGA), Canada (Canada 
National Inventory), China (China National Bureau of 
Statistics), and the US (eGrid). For all the other countries, 
emission factors from  International Energy Agency (IEA) have 
been applied to calculate Scope 2 location‑based  emissions. 
Scope  3 “T&D losses” refers to electricity transmission and 
distribution grid losses i.e. the energy loss that occurs in 
transmitting the electricity from the generation source to 
our facilities.
Where possible, we gather actual data – such as kWh from digital 
metering systems or invoices and mileage data from travel agents 
and expense systems.
data is estimated in the following cases:
 —  when actual data has been delayed beyond the reporting 
deadline – this report is prepared in early January 2024, by 
which point not all invoices and expenses are submitted so 
data is temporarily estimated and replaced by actual data 
when it becomes available;

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
reporting scopes and methodologies
255
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI4 —  when a small entity does not have the resources available to 
collect the data – we report data on 99.8% of operations by 
headcount, the remaining proportion is in smaller entities, 
typically where there are less than 250 employees. In these 
countries, data is estimated based on the Group average – 
with the estimation adjusted in proportion to the floor area/
headcount; 
 —  in leased buildings we sometimes do not have the necessary 
access to invoices and plant infrastructure to gather actual 
data – in many cases landlords and building owners do provide 
actual data anyway, but in some cases, we use estimations to 
fill data gaps; 
 —  when we are a tenant of a shared facility with no sub -metering 
or tenant -specific data – in this case data is allocated based 
on floor area or number of employees; 
 —  a percentage of employees do not book their travel through 
the approved travel agency – to account for these cases we 
extrapolate the data by applying a percentage uplift to the 
travel agency data.
The calculation of the emissions associated with employee commuting 
and working from home are based on the commuting survey 
results from 2023. The responses of over 61,000 employees (18% 
of our headcount), provided insight into the distance employees 
travelled for each mode of transport, the frequency of commuting 
vs working from home and the energy consumption and main 
sources of emissions whilst working from home (including from 
heating, cooling and IT equipment). For each country, the average 
usage per employee has been calculated which we extrapolated 
on a country basis to reflect the total number of employees. A 
small number of countries did not have a big enough population 
size or survey response rate to constitute a statistically significant 
sample, and therefore in these cases the data was extrapolated 
using the Group average.
4623  Scope, sources, methodologies and accuracy 
of human resources reporting
The Group’s hr and labor data comes from several sources , for 
general management and reporting purposes:
 —  the Group’s financial reporting tool, which provides data 
reported monthly or quarterly using common indicators, 
such as total permanent headcount (permanent and 
fixed -term contracts including non -actively working, 
excluding temporary agencies staff, individual freelancers, 
independent workers, subcontractors, trainees) and 
movements (hires/acquisitions/departures/attrition rate) as 
of December 31, 2023.The scope of this data is Group -wide 
and therefore, there is a link between the sustainability 
reporting and the financial reporting; 
 —  an internal Business Intelligence (BI) tool, which is interfaced 
with most local human resources systems within Capgemini. 
It provides monthly statistics on seniority, age range, gender 
and grade, wherever allowed by law. More than 99% of 
Group employee’s data is consolidated within this tool in 
2023. However, some data or some units are not interfaced, 
due to either due mostly to the time required to build the 
appropriate interfaces, in particular for recently acquired 
companies;  —  for some units not interfaced to the Group internal BI tool, 
data manually collected and added to consolidated data. 
 —  the Employee Engagement indicators are taken from the 
Pulse platform run by an external provider used to run the 
engagement surveys. Glassdoor scores are taken from the 
Capgemini profile page on the Glassdoor website, which 
is an external and independent provider of this external 
attractiveness data. 
For Learning and Development :
 —  the Group has implemented a system accessible to all 
Capgemini employees, called Next and powered by Degreed. 
Our Learning Management System (MyLearning) remains 
our system of record for all our Learning Hours. Our learning 
ecosystem encompasses the full learning catalog (on site and 
virtual courses, webcasts, videos…  ). It enables monitoring 
and tracking of the training delivered. Hours of training 
tracked by the business units via MyLearning system are 
calculated based on the predefined duration of each training 
session (and not on the time effectively spent by employees 
on the training). Reporting only on system -tracked hours 
allows us to have full visibility down to the individual learning 
activity and secures an auditable trail; 
 —  on the job learning hours are tracked in local entity time 
management systems. The equivalent learning hours are 
loaded into the MyLearning system (as above), excluding any 
recorded training that the employee may have completed 
during that time period to ensure no double counting of 
learning hours.
regarding the diversity metrics:
 —  the proportion of women in Executive Leaders represents 
the proportion of Executive leadership Positions being 
women, i.e. the highest positions at Group level (Capgemini 
group); 
 —  the proportion of women in Executive position represents 
the % of women in Director and Vice-President positions (F 
grade); 
 —  the proportion of women in Vice-President inflow represents 
the % of women being appointed to a Vice-President position 
either through the internal promotion process or through 
external hiring in the course of the year; 
 —  for the reporting related to employees with disabilities, 
we collect the information through a questionnaire sent to 
major countries.
regarding, h ealth & s afety and travels:
 —  due to Capgemini business and the number of countries 
where the Group operates, a large number of employees 
are used to travel across the world. Travel Management 
processes, including security -related processes, have been 
defined and implemented. It should be noted that some 
travels are organized and monitored by clients since they 
occur as part of client engagements. In addition, in rare 
cases and due to emergency, a limited number of travels are 
booked through internet by employees themselves.

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
reporting scopes and methodologies
256
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT44624  Scope, sources, methodologies and accuracy 
of other material topics
a)  Ethics and human rights (alerts and affected 
stakeholders’ concerns)
Our internal and external stakeholders can report alerts and/or 
ask for advice about actions or behaviors that are not:
 —  aligned with our Values, our Code of Business Ethics and 
related Ethics & Compliance policies; 
 —  in compliance with applicable laws; 
 —  that may significantly affect vital interests of Capgemini and 
its affiliates.
Alerts are reported through SpeakUp , a web and phone -based 
ethics reporting, incident management and advisory tool, hosted 
by an independent service provider.
The SpeakUp  helpline is managed by our Group Ethics function 
and supported by our global network of General Counsels, Ethics 
& Compliance Officers and HR investigators.
It is voluntary, confidential, and allows anonymity.b)  data protection & cybersecurity
Organization, processes and tools to monitor our performance 
are detailed in the Section 4.4.3.
Cyber ratings are provided by independent external agencies.
c)  Local communities
All data related to Digital Inclusion programs ( Digital Literacy , 
Digital Academy , T4PF… ) are provided by the top 16 countries 
where our programs are being deployed. A dedicated person at 
the country -level (local CSR leader or someone from his/her team) 
will update a quarterly reporting dashboard provided by the Group 
CSR reporting team.
As a second step, the CSR reporting team carries out systematic 
check of all data to ensure the alignment of the projects and figures 
reported by countries with Group guidelines on Digital Inclusion.
Only projects aligned with these guidelines are taken into account 
in the Digital Inclusion reporting.
In case of discrepancy or inconsistency identified by the teams, 
the reporting team will escalate and resolve the issue with the 
concerned countries. As a final step, the Group CSR reporting 
team and the Group Digital Inclusion teams review and validate 
the final figures.

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
reporting scopes and methodologies
257
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI4463  Table of non‑financial indicators
Material topics Metrics 2022 2023  Frameworks sdG
ENVIRONMENT
emissions – 
Scope 1 (tCO2e) Data centers energy – Scope 1 (natural gas, diesel) 19 19 
GRI 305 -1
SDG 11 
& 13Office Energy – Scope 1 (natural gas, diesel) 4,038 3,723 
F gas – Scope 1 4,402 5,121 
TOTAL Scope 1 8,459 8,863 √ 
emissions – 
Scope 2 (tCO2e)  Data centers energy – Scope 2  
(electricity, heating, cooling)0 0 
GRI 305 -2Office Energy – Scope 2 (electricity, heating, cooling) 10,457 4,466 
TOTAL Scope 2 (market based) 10,457 4,466 √ 
Data centers energy – Scope 2  
(electricity, heating, cooling) – location based144 143 
Office Energy – Scope 2 (electricity, heating, cooling)  
– location based77,161 78,801 
TOTAL Scope 2 (location based) 77,305 78,944 
emissions – 
Scope 3 (tCO2e)  Purchased goods and services – Scope 3 365,650 349,522 √ 
GRI 305 -3Data centers (Third party managed) – Scope 3 2,850 2,274 
Office Energy – Scope 3  
(Transport & Distribution losses)10,798 12,498 
Data centers energy – Scope 3  
(Transport & Distribution losses)5 5 
Waste – Scope 3 263 221 √ 
Business travel emissions – Scope 3  
(including Company car travel)139,090 174,706 √ 
Employee commuting (including working from home) 
– Scope 3201,849 239,630 √ 
Water emissions – Scope 3 326 396 
TOTAL Scope 3 720,832 779,251 √ 
Emissions  
– Total (tCO2e)  Absolute Scope 1 and 2 emissions 18,916 13,328 √  
TOTAL EMISSIONS 739,748 792,580 √ 
 Total operational emissions 374,098 443,058 
Carbon credits retired 20,883 236,191 √ 
Operational emissions per headcount  
(average total headcount)1.07 1.27 
GRI 305 -4Total emissions per headcount  
(average total headcount)2.11 2.27 √ 
Business travel emissions per headcount  
(average total headcount)0.40 0.50 √ 
Employee commuting emissions per headcount 
(average total headcount)0.36 0.50 √ 
Total emissions per million euros of revenue 33.63 35.19 

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
reporting scopes and methodologies
258
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT4Material topics Metrics 2022 2023  Frameworks sdG
Energy – Office 
(MWh)  Office energy use – Diesel/Gas oil 4,114 4,145 
GRI 302- 1
[SASB TC-SI-
130a.1]
SDG 7Office energy use – District cooling 1,423 1,456 
Office energy use – District Heating 12,618 10,391 
Office energy use – LPG 610 795 
Office energy use – Natural gas 15,619 13,614 
Office energy use – Non -renewable electricity 20,047 6,646 
Office energy use – Renewable electricity (Onsite) 11,724 14,051 
Office energy use – Renewable electricity (Purchased) 137,715 148,075 
Office energy use – Total 203,871 199,173 √ 
Office energy use – % Electricity from renewables  88%  96% [SASB TC-SI-
130a.1]
Office energy use – Office energy usage per area 0.09 0.09 √ GRI 302- 3
energy – d ata 
Center (leased)  
– (MWh) Data centers (Leased) energy use – Diesel/Gas oil 73 73 
GRI 302- 1
[SASB TC-SI-
130a.1]Data centers (Leased) energy use – Natural gas 0 0 
Data centers (Leased) energy use  
– Non -renewable electricity0 0 
Data centers (Leased) energy use  
– Renewable electricity1,976 1,807 
Data centers (Leased) energy use – Total 2,049 1,880 
Data centers (Leased) energy use  
– % Electricity from renewables100% 100% 
Energy – Total 
(MWh) Total energy use 205,920 201,053 √ 
Total energy use – % of electricity from renewables  88%  96% √ 
GRI 302- 2
[SASB TC-SI-
130a.1]Total energy use – % of energy from renewables  74%  82% 
energy – d ata 
Center (third 
party managed)  
– (MWh) Data centers (Third party managed) energy use  
– Diesel/Gas oil270 144 
Data centers (Third party managed) energy use  
– Natural gas10 0 
Data centers (Third party managed) energy use  
– Non -renewable electricity10,661 5,575 
Data centers (Third party managed) energy use  
– Renewable electricity44,652 38,684 
Data centers (Third party managed) energy use – Total 55,593 44,404 
Data centers (Third party managed) energy use  
– % of electricity from renewables81% 87% 

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
reporting scopes and methodologies
259
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI4Material topics Metrics 2022 2023  Frameworks sdG
Waste 
management  
and circular 
economy (tons)  Resources – Reused 9 272 
GRI 306 -4
SDG 12Resources – Recycled 1,225 1,296 
Resources – Anaerobic digestion, composting 141 259 
Resources – Diverted from disposal 1,375 1,827 
Non hazardous waste incinerated with energy recovery 325 322 GRI 306 -3
Non hazardous waste incinerated without energy recovery 0 0 
Non hazardous waste landfilled 481 348 
GRI 306 -5Non hazardous waste directed to disposal 805 670 
Hazardous waste 0 0 
Total waste generated 2,180 2,497 
Total waste generated – per headcount  
(average total headcount) kgs/head6.2 7.2 
Water  
(cubic meters)Total water consumption 773,633 1,047,802 GRI 303 -5
[SASB TC-SI-
130a.2]SDG 12
operations 
covered by 
ISO 14001Operations covered by ISO 14001 – % of headcount 
covered (headcount at the end of the year) 94% 98% √ 
Operations covered by ISO 14001 – % of sites covered 
(number of sites at the end of the year 68% 73% √ 
ev Fleet % of electric vehicles in Company car fleet 24% 34% 

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
reporting scopes and methodologies
260
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT4Material topics Metrics 2022 2023  Frameworks sdG
SOCIAL
own Workforce Annual average headcount 347,758 349,793 GRI 2 -7
SDG 8Headcount at the end of the year 359,567 340,443 √ 
Average seniority in %   
 < 3 years 68.9% 65.4% √ 
 ≥ 3 < 5 years 10.9% 10.7% √ 
 ≥ 5 < 10 years 10.0% 12.4% √ 
 ≥ 10 years 10.2% 11.5% √ 
Average age in %   
< 25 years old 19.0% 14.8% √ 
 ≥ 25 < 35 years old 45.8% 47.6% √ 
 ≥ 35 < 45 years old 21.9% 23.1% √ 
 ≥ 45 < 55 years old 9.5% 10.3% √ 
 ≥ 55 years old 3.9% 4.2% √ 
Breakdown of total headcount by gender,  
at the end of the year (% of women)37.8% 38.8% √ GRI 405 -1
[SASB TC-SI-
330a.3]
Breakdown of total headcount by gender,  
at the end of the year (% of men)62.2% 61.2% √  
% of headcount (total headcount at the end of the 
year) working part time1.9% 2.0%  
% of headcount, at the end of the year, requiring an 
employment visa for work5.8% 7.5% [SASB TC-SI-
330a.1]
Number of external hires 140,789 61,182 √ 
GRI 401 -1Number of hires through acquisitions 1,836 1,472 
% of annual average headcount voluntary attrition 25.5% 16.7% √ 
% of annual average headcount total attrition 30.8% 23.1% 
Group engagement score – Aggregate average 
Engagement Score (from 0 to 10)8.0 7.9 
[SASB TC-SI-
330a.2]Employee Net Promoter Score – Group eNPS (% of 
promoters (score: 9‑10) less % of detractors (0‑6))39 33 
Pulse participation rate – Aggregate full year 
employee participation rate in Pulse (in %)  58% 75% 
Group engagement score – Actively engaged 
employees (% of the respondents with Engagement 
Score 7 -10)85% 82% 
skills 
management  
& developmentAverage Completed Learning h ours per headcount 
at the end of the year, trained during the reporting 
period51.4 53.8 √ 
GRI 404 -1 SDG 4Average Completed Learning Hours, including 
learning in the flow of work, per headcount at the end 
of the year, trained during the reporting period 66.5 
Total number of training hours (in millions) 17.4 17.8 √ 
Total number of training hours, including learning in 
the flow of work (in millions)  22.0 

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
reporting scopes and methodologies
261
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI4Material topics Metrics 2022 2023  Frameworks sdG
diversity 
& inclusive 
environment% of women in revenue generating functions 37.0% 37.8% 
GRI 405 -1
[SASB TC-SI-
330a.3]SDG 5,  
8 & 10% of women in STEM related positions 35.0% 35.7% 
% of women in entry level positions 47.1% 47.9% 
% of women in junior management positions 27.9% 29.3% 
% of women in management positions in revenue 
generating functions18.2% 27.2% 
% of women in e xecutive leadership positions 24.4% 26.2% √ 
% of women in all management positions (including 
junior, middle and top management positions)27.2% 28.7% 
% of women in the Executive Committee 27.6% 28.9% √ 
% of women among new Vice-Presidents (internal 
promotions and external hiring)31.4% 31.2% 
Total number of headcount with disabilities,  
at the end of the year3,844 4,015 GRI 405 -1
health, safety,  
& well -being% of travelers in “medium/high” risk countries, 
who have followed the safety/security procedure 
(Snapshot process)100% 99% 
GRI 403 -5
SDG 3Number of serious events affecting employees to  
be monitored (terrorist attacks, flooding, tornadoes, 
civil unrest… )143 218 
GRI 403 -2Assistance Activity – Information and advice 571 109 
Assistance Activity
Outpatient
Inpatient
Evacuations and Repatriation of Mortal remains29 27 
Assistance Activity – Total number of assistance 
interventions for travelers and/or expats600 136 
Number of International travels (by air) 100,084 43,632  
Number of travels to “medium/high” risk countries 14,137 6,138 

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
reporting scopes and methodologies
262
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT4Material topics Metrics 2022 2023  Frameworks sdG
values, ethics  
& human rights% of the headcount (average total headcount),  
with an e thics score of between 7 and 1087% 86% GRI 407
GRI 408
GRI 409
SDG 8 & 16% of headcount (total headcount at the end of 
the year) who completed the Ethics@Capgemini 
e-learning module on the Code of Business Ethics73% 91% 
 
% of headcount (total headcount at the end of the 
year) who completed the e -learning sub-module on 
human rights 93% 
Number of alerts reported on SpeakUp , as per the last 
day of each year599 1,059 
GRI 2 -26% of alerts reported on SpeakUp , as per the last day of 
each year, that are no longer subject to action (closed)72% 78% 
% of alerts reported on SpeakUp  for which the 
reporter’s identity is unknown, as per the last day of 
each year48% 52% 
% of alerts closed that are established/proven,  
as per the last day of each year40% 33% 
Number of discrimination alerts, as per the last day of 
each year42 113 
GRI 406 -1% of discrimination alerts that are no longer subject to 
action (closed), as per the last day of each year81% 81% 
% of the discrimination alerts closed that are 
established/or proven, as per the last day of each year18% 31% 
Number of harassment alerts (including sexual 
harassment), as per the last day of each year102 219 
 % of harassment alerts that are no longer subject to 
action (closed), as per the last day of each year87% 81% 
% of the harassment alerts closed that are established 
or proven, as per the last day of each year55% 39% 
digital inclusion 
and contribution 
to local 
developmentNumber of Digital Academy  graduates 12,705 14,297 
GRI 413 -1SDG 4,  
5, 8 & 10Number of Digital Academy  graduates hired by 
Capgemini2,947 1,086 
Number of Digital Literacy  programs beneficiaries 1,124,757 856,083 
Number of Tech for Positive Futures  beneficiaries 0 1,606,653 
Total number of Digital Inclusion beneficiaries 
(Digital Academy + Digital Literacy + Tech for 
Positive Futures)1,137,462 2,477,033 
Cumulated number of Digital Inclusion beneficiaries 
(since 2018)1,899,744 4,376,777 √ 

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
reporting scopes and methodologies
263
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI4Material topics Metrics 2022 2023  Frameworks sdG
GOVERNANCE
Corporate 
GovernanceMsCI es G rating on Corporate Governance Rating 
achievedRating 
achieved √   
Anti -corruption % of headcount (total headcount at the end of the 
year) who completed the e -learning module on 
anti -corruption policy89.3% 94.0% 
GRI 205 -2
SDG 16Fair competition % of headcount (total headcount at the end of the 
year) who completed the e -learning module on 
Competition Laws Policy88.4% 92.0% 
 
Number of fines paid as a result of legal proceedings 
associated with anti-competitive behavior0 0 
GRI 2 -27
GRI 206 -1
[SASB TC-SI-
520a.1]Amount of fines paid as a result of legal proceedings 
associated with anti -competitive behavior€0 €0
Number of legal actions pending or completed during 
the reporting period regarding anticompetitive 
behaviors and violations of anti -trust and monopoly 
legislation in which the organization has been 
identified as a participant1* 1* 
responsible 
procurement% of new vendors above 50K euros spend committed 
to the ESG Standards enforced by Supplier Standards 
of Conduct commitments55% 40% GRI 308 -1
GRI 308 -2
GRI 414 -1
GRI 414 -2SDG   
3, 4, 5, 8, 
10, 12,  
13 & 16

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
reporting scopes and methodologies
264
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT4Material topics Metrics 2022 2023  Frameworks sdG
Protect and 
secure data% of headcount (total headcount at the end of the 
year) who completed the e -learning module on Data 
protection89% 96% 
 
SDG 16Number of requests from individuals or organizations, 
exercising their rights under the GDPR440 435  
Number of users whose information is intentionally 
used for a purpose that is outside the primary purpose 
for which the data was collected0 0 GRI 418 -1
[SASB TC-SI-
220a.2]
Number of public authorities requests for user 
information0 1 
[SASB TC-SI-
220a.4]Number of users whose information was requested by 
public authorities0 1 
% of public authorities requests (annual number of 
requests) resulting in disclosure0% 0% 
Number of law enforcement requests for user 
information0 5 
Number of users whose information was requested 
by agencies and employees responsible for enforcing 
laws, maintaining public order, and managing public 
safety0 5 
% of law enforcement agencies requests (annual 
number of requests) resulting in disclosure0% 40% 
Number of substantiated complaints concerning 
breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer 
data0 0 [SASB TC-SI-
220a.3]
Number of data breaches notified as data controller to 
competent Data Protection Authorities9 4 GRI 418 -1
[SASB TC-SI-
230a.1]
% of revenues associated with client engagements 
triggering processing of personal data subject to an 
end -to-end digital maturity assessment79% 79% 
[sAsB TC- sI-
230a.2]% of d Po (number of d Po at the end of the year) 
certified with one of the external official certifying 
bodies (worldwide scope)65% 72% √ 
Amount paid to individuals or organizations in 
the context of a data protection claim against the 
Company processing their personal data0 € 0 € [SASB TC-SI-
220a.3.]

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
reporting scopes and methodologies
265
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI4Material topics Metrics 2022 2023  Frameworks sdG
Cybersecurity Level of compliance with the Group Cybersecurity 
Baseline Policy (grade out of 10)8.3 8.5 
 SDG 16% of headcount (total headcount at the end of the 
year) who completed the mandatory e -learning 
module and training program on Cyber risk90.5% 96.7% 
% of new hires (number of new hires during the 
year) who completed the mandatory Cyber risk 
awareness -raising and training program88.6% 97.7% 
% of operation centers and sensitive facilities at  
the end of the year, ISO 27001 certified94.7% 94.8% 
Cyber r ating agencies – Cyber vadis score  
(out of 1,000)942 958 √ 
Cyber r ating agencies – r iskrecon score  
(out of 10, 6 -month average)7.7 (B) 8 (B) √ 
Cyber r ating agencies – Bit sight  
(out of 900 – 6 -month average)730 – Basic 718 – Inter -
mediate √ 
Cyber Rating agencies – SecurityScorecard (rating) A A 
Scope: Capgemini group if not specified.
For each non -financial indicator, the methodology – and when necessary the reasons for 2021 figures discrepancies are detailed in related Section. Please refer to them.
√ Data identified in these tables by a √ has been reviewed by Mazars with a reasonable level of assurance.
KPIs in bold are KPIs related to the ESG policy.
(*) These figures refer to the same procedure pending since 2018. Indeed, on November 8, 2018, Altran was subject to inspection and seizure operations by the Competition 
Authority relating to alleged anti -competitive practices in the engineering and technology consulting sectors, as well as computer services and software publishing. To 
date, the investigation is ongoing. The visit and seizure operations do not prejudge the outcome of the procedure or its possible financial consequences.
464  F r a m e w o r k s
Capgemini non -financial reporting meets the European and 
French regulatory obligations, and is aligned with the following 
international frameworks and standards:
 —  the European Union Directive and the French regulations 
on non -financial statement, known as the extra -financial 
performance declaration (“ Déclaration de performance 
extra‑financière ” or DPEF); 
 —  the French duty of care (“ Devoir de vigilance ”) and 
anticorruption law (“Loi Sapin II”), which are applicable in 
France since 2017 and 2016 respectively; 
 —  the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact 
(UNGC), to which we communicate our progress; 
 —  the Taskforce on Climate -related Financial Disclosures 
(TCFD); 
 —  the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) climate change 
questionnaire; 
 —  the SASB Software-IT-Services-Standard-2018; 
 —  the GRI standards 2021;  —  the French Code of Commerce and the AFEP-MEDEF 
recommendations on Corporate Governance.
a)  Capgemini es G index
Capgemini discloses Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) 
data across several reports and websites.
For each subtopic, we map our existing disclosures to the Global 
Reporting Initiative (GRI), the Sustainable Accounting Standards 
Board (SASB), and the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial 
Disclosures (TCFD) voluntary disclosure frameworks, as relevant 
to our business.
b)  Capgemini G rI Content Index
The Group has reported in accordance with the GRI Standards 2021 
for the period from 1 January 2023 to 31 December 2023. The FY23 
GRI Content index is published on our website.
465  Extra‑financial ratings and rankings
In 2023, the Group responded to key extra -financial rating agencies 
and was part of certain key indices as presented below.
a)  Key Indices
 —  Capgemini remained a constituent of the DJSI Europe Index 
with a 77/100  score compared with an industry average of 
46/100.
 —  Capgemini maintained an “A” rating on the MSCI Index.
 —  Capgemini remained a constituent of the FTSE4Good Index.
 —  Capgemini is part of the Euronext Vigeo Europe 120 Index, 
which recognizes the 120  most advanced companies in 
Europe.
 —  Capgemini is included in the CAC40 ESG index, which 
identifies the 40 companies within the CAC Large 60 Index 
that demonstrate the best Environmental, Social and 
Governance (ESG) practices.
 —  Capgemini is ranked 9th out of 40 in the CAC 40 Governance 
Index, based on the Group’s high Corporate Governance 
score awarded by Moody’s ESG Solutions agency. —  Capgemini is part of Euronext Climate Europe.
 —  Capgemini is part of Low Carbon 100 Europe.
b)  sustainability -related recognition
 —  Capgemini has maintained a Platinum  medal in its Ecovadis 
sustainability assessment, the highest possible rating with a 
score which puts the Group in the top 1% of organizations 
assessed since 2020.
 —  Capgemini retained its “ Prime ” status in the ISS ESG 
Corporate Performance, maintaining its B rating (first decile 
within its sector).
 —  Capgemini obtained a low risk rating from Sustainalytics for 
2023 and was ranked 8/1107 among industry peers in 2023.
 —  Capgemini was included in the S&P Global Sustainability 
Yearbook 2023 based on its S&P Global ESG scores. This is 
an important recognition of our leadership in sustainability, 

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
External Report on the Déclaration de performance extra‑financière 
266
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT4with featured companies ranking in the top 10% of their 
industry.
c)  environment -related recognition
Capgemini retained a position on the ‘ A List’ published by the 
global environmental non -profit CDP for its leadership in corporate 
sustainability.
d)  social -related recognition
The Company is listed in the 2023 Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index 
(GEI), The GEI serves as a touchstone for companies seeking to track 
their progress in gender inclusion and how the implementation of 
diversity policies shape company performance.
e)  Governance -related recognition
 —  Capgemini was awarded the 2023 “Environment” Prize in 
the “ Most Sustainable Companies ” category by French finance media group AGEFI. The Environment Award covers the direct 
environmental impact of the companies being assessed 
(energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions, water, 
biodiversity, pollution, chemicals and waste), the actions 
taken to reduce the impact of their products (product use 
and end -of-life, consumer Health and Safety, promotion 
of environmental services), and the management of 
environmental risks in the Company’s supply chain.
 —  the Company has been recognized as One of the World’s 
Most Ethical Companies® by the Ethisphere  Institute for eleven 
consecutive years in a row.
 —  Capgemini was a winner of the Transparency Awards Ethics 
& Compliance 2023 (Grand Prize all categories) hosted by 
Labrador on December 7, 2023.
47  External Report on the Déclaration de performance 
extra‑financière  
[GRI 2 -5]
Report by the Independent third‑party organization on the verification of the 
consolidated non‑financial statement included in the Group Management report
This is a free translation into English of the Independent third‑party organization’s report issued in French and is provided solely for the convenience 
of English‑speaking readers. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional 
standards applicable in France.
For the year ended December 31st, 2023
To the shareholders,
In our capacity as Independent third -party organization, member of 
Mazars Group and accredited by COFRAC Inspection under number 
3-1095 (list of accredited sites and their scope of accreditation 
available on www.cofrac.fr ), we have performed work to provide 
a reasoned opinion that expresses a limited level of assurance 
on the historical information (observed and extrapolated) of the 
consolidated extra -financial performance statement (hereinafter the 
“Information” and “Statement” respectively), prepared in accordance 
with the entity’s procedures, as well as, at the Company’s request 
and outside the scope of accreditation, a reasonable assurance 
conclusion on a selection of information, prepared in accordance 
with the Entity’s procedures (hereinafter the “Guidelines”), for 
the financial year ended December 31st, 2023, presented in the 
management report of the group, in application of the provisions 
of Articles L. 225 -102 -1, R. 225 -105 and R. 225 -105 -1 of the 
Commercial Code.
Conclusion
Based on the procedures we performed, as described in the “Nature 
and scope of our work” and the evidence we collected, nothing has 
come to our attention that causes us to believe that the consolidated 
non -financial statement is not presented in accordance with the 
applicable regulatory requirements and that the Information, 
taken as a whole, is not presented fairly in accordance with the 
Guidelines, in all material respects.
Reasonable assurance report on selected information
For the information selected by the Company and identified by 
the sign √, we have carried out, at the Company’s request and on 
a voluntary basis, work of the same nature as that described in 
the paragraph “Nature and scope of the work” above for the key performance indicators and for the other quantitative results that 
we considered to be the most important. This work was carried 
out in greater depth, particularly in terms of the number of tests.
The selected sample thus represents 61% of the workforce 
and between 54% and 100% of the environmental information 
identified by the sign √.
We are convinced that this work allows us to express reasonable 
assurance on the information selected by the Company and 
identified by the sign √.
Conclusion
In our opinion, the information selected by the Company and 
identified by the sign √ has been established, in all material respects, 
in accordance with the Standards.
Preparation of the non‑financial performance statement
The lack of a commonly used framework or established practice 
on which to base the assessment and evaluation of information 
allows for the use of alternative accepted methodologies that may 
affect comparability between entities and over time.
The Statement has been prepared in accordance with the entity’s 
procedures (hereinafter the “Guidelines”), the main elements of 
which are presented in the Statement.
Restrictions due to the preparation of the 
Information
As mentioned in the Statement, the Information may contain inherent 
uncertainty about the state of scientific or economic knowledge 
and the quality of external data used. Some of the Information 
is dependent on the methodological choices, assumptions and/
or estimates made in preparing the information and presented 
in the Statement.

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
External Report on the Déclaration de performance extra‑financière 
267
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI4The entity’s responsibility
The Board of Directors is responsible for:
 —  selecting or setting appropriate criteria for the provision of 
the Information; 
 —  preparing the Statement with reference to legal and 
regulatory requirements, including a presentation of the 
business model, a description of the principal non -financial 
risks, a presentation of the policies implemented considering 
those risks and the outcomes of said policies, including key 
performance indicators and also, the Information required 
by Article 8 of Regulation (EU) 2020/852 (EU Taxonomy); 
 —  and implementing internal control procedures deemed 
necessary to preparation of information, free from material 
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
The Statement has been prepared by applying the Company’s 
Guidelines as referred to above.
Responsibility of the Independent third -party 
organization
Based on our work, our responsibility is to provide a report expressing 
a limited assurance conclusion on:
 —  the compliance of the Statement with the requirements of 
article R. 225 -105 of the French Commercial Code; 
 —  the fairness of the Information provided in accordance with 
article R. 225 105 I, 3° and II of the French Commercial Code, 
i.e., the outcomes, including key performance indicators, and 
the measures implemented considering the principal risks 
(hereinafter the “Information”).
We have carried out work designed to provide a reasoned opinion 
expressing a limited level of assurance on the historical, observed 
or extrapolated information.
As our responsibility is to express an independent conclusion on 
the information as prepared by management, we are not permitted 
to be involved in the preparation of this information, as this could 
compromise our independence.
It is also our responsibility to express, at the request of the entity 
and outside the scope of accreditation, a reasonable assurance 
conclusion on whether the information selected by the Entity 
has been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with 
the Guidelines.
It is not our responsibility to express an opinion on:
 —  the entity’s compliance with other applicable legal and 
regulatory requirements (in particular with regard to 
the Information required by Article 8  of Regulation (EU) 
2020/852 (green taxonomy), the due diligence plan and the 
fight against corruption and tax evasion); 
 —  the truthfulness of the Information provided for in Article 
8 of Regulation (EU) 2020/852 (EU Taxonomy); 
 —  the compliance of products and services with applicable 
regulations.
Regulatory provisions and applicable professional 
standards
The work described below was performed with reference to the 
provisions of articles A. 225 -1 et seq. of the French Commercial Code, 
as well as with the professional guidance of the French Institute 
of Statutory auditors (“CNCC”) applicable to such engagements 
and with ISAE 3000 (1) (revised).
This report has been prepared in accordance with the verification 
program RSE-SQ-Programme de vérification-DPEF.
(1) ISAE 3000 – Assurance engagements other than audits or reviews of historical financial informationIndependence and quality control
Our independence is defined by the requirements of article 
L. 822 -11-3 of the French Commercial Code and the French Code of 
Ethics ( Code de déontologie ) of our profession. In addition, we have 
implemented a system of quality control including documented 
policies and procedures regarding compliance with applicable 
legal and regulatory requirements, the ethical requirements and 
French professional.
Means and resources
Our work was carried out by a team of 10 people between 
November 2023 and February 2024 and took a total of 10 weeks.
We called on our specialists in sustainable development and 
Social Responsibility to assist us in our work. We conducted a 
dozen interviews with the people responsible for preparing the 
Statement, representing in particular the General Secretariat, 
administration and finance, compliance, human resources, digital 
inclusion, environment, and purchasing departments.
Nature and scope of our work
We planned and performed our work considering the risks of 
significant misstatement of the Information.
We are convinced that the procedures we have carried out in the 
exercise of our professional judgment enable us to provide a limited 
assurance conclusion:
 —  we obtained an understanding of all the consolidated 
entities’ activities and the description of the principal risks 
associated; 
 —  we assessed the suitability of the criteria of the Guidelines 
with respect to their relevance, completeness, reliability, 
neutrality and understandability, with due consideration of 
industry best practices, where appropriate; 
 —  we verified that the Statement includes each category 
of social and environmental information set out in article 
L. 225 102 1 III as well as information regarding compliance 
with human rights and anti -corruption and tax avoidance 
legislation; 
 —  we verified that the Statement provides the Information 
required under article R. 225 -105 II of the French Commercial 
Code, where relevant with respect to the principal risks, and 
includes, where applicable, an explanation for the absence 
of the Information required under article L.  225 -102-1  III, 
paragraph 2 of the French Commercial Code; 
 —  we verified that the Statement presents the business model 
and a description of principal risks associated with the entity’s 
activity all the consolidated entities’ activities, including 
where relevant and proportionate, the risks associated with 
their business relationships, their products or services, as 
well as their policies, measures and the outcomes thereof, 
including key performance indicators associated to the 
principal risks; 
 —  we referred to documentary sources and conducted 
interviews to:
 –  assess the process used to identify and confirm the 
principal risks as well as the consistency of the outcomes, 
including the key performance indicators used, with 
respect to the principal risks and the policies presented, 
and; 
 –  corroborate the qualitative information (measures and 
outcomes) that we considered to be the most important 
presented in Appendix; concerning certain risks (related 
to Compliance, Data privacy and cybersecurity, Digital 
inclusion, and Environmental management) our work was 
carried out on the consolidating entity, for the others 
risks, our work was carried out on the consolidating 
entity and on a selection of entities; 

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
External Report on the Déclaration de performance extra‑financière 
268
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT4 —  we verified that the Statement covers the scope of 
consolidation, i.e., all the consolidated entities in accordance 
with article L. 233 -16 of the French Commercial Code within 
the limitations set out in the Statement; 
 —  we obtained an understanding of internal control and 
risk management procedures the entity has put in place 
and assessed the data collection process to ensure the 
completeness and fairness of the Information; 
 —  for the key performance indicators and other quantitative 
outcomes that we considered to be the most important 
presented in Appendix, we implemented:
 –  analytical procedures to verify the proper consolidation 
of the data collected and the consistency of any changes 
in those data;  –  tests of details, using sampling techniques, in order 
to verify the proper application of the definitions and 
procedures and reconcile the data with the supporting 
documents. This work was carried out on a selection of 
contributing entities and covers 61% of the headcount 
and between 54% and 100% of the consolidated data 
relating to the key performance indicators and outcomes 
selected for these tests; 
 —  we assessed the overall consistency of the Statement based 
on our knowledge of all the consolidated entities.
The procedures performed for a limited assurance engagement 
are less extensive than those required for a reasonable assurance 
engagement performed in accordance with the professional doctrine 
of the Compagnie nationale des commissaires aux comptes . Indeed, 
the procedures performed for reasonable assurance required more 
comprehensive verification work.
The Independent third party
Mazars s As
Paris-La Défense, February 19, 2024
Anne-Laure Rousselou
PartnerSouad El Ouazzani
CSR & Sustainable Development Partner

our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader
External Report on the Déclaration de performance extra‑financière 
269
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI4Appendix: Information considered most important
Qualitative information
 —  Double materiality analysis
 —  Policies, actions and measures related to Environment
 —  Policies, actions and measures related to Diversity and 
Inclusion —  Policies, actions and measures related to Human Rights
 —  Policies, actions and measures related to Employee Relations
 —  Policies, actions and measures related to Data Protection
 —  Policies, actions and measures related to Business Ethics
Quantitative information
Assurance  
level Topics Indicators Audit perimeter
Reasonable environment  — Total office energy consumption
 — Percentage of electricity from renewable sources
 — Energy efficiency (kWh/m2 )
 — Total energy consumption
 — Greenhouse gas emissions from scopes 1 & 2, total and per employee — Capgemini France
 — Capgemini India
 — Capgemini USA
 — Capgemini Poland
 — Capgemini China
 — Greenhouse gas emissions from scope 3, total and per employee
 — Greenhouse gas emissions from commuting (including 
telecommuting), total and per employee
 — Greenhouse gas emissions from business travel, total and  
per employee
 — Greenhouse gas emissions from purchased goods & services, total
 — Greenhouse gas emissions from waste, total — Capgemini France
 — Capgemini India
 — Capgemini USA
 — Percentage of operations covered by ISO 14001 certification (by 
headcount at the end of the year and number of sites)
 — Carbon credits retired — Capgemini group
digital  
inclusion — Cumulated number of Digital Inclusion beneficiaries (since 2018)  — Capgemini group
social  — Total number of training hours
 — Average Completed Learning Hours per headcount at the end of  
the year, trained during the reporting period — Capgemini group
 — Percentage of annual average headcount voluntary attrition
 — Number of external hires
 — Average seniority in % — Capgemini France
 — Capgemini India
 — Percentage of women in the Executive Committee
 — Percentage of women in Executive leadership positions — Capgemini group
 — Percentage of women in the workforce
 — Headcount at the end of the year by gender and geographic 
distribution
 — Average age in % of employees — Capgemini France
 — Capgemini India
Governance  — MSCI ESG rating on Corporate Governance  — Capgemini group
data protection  — Percentage of DPOs (number of DPO at the end of the year)  
certified with one of the external official certifying bodies 
(worldwide scope) — Capgemini group
Cybersecurity  — Cyber Rating agencies – CyberVadis score (out of 1,000)
 — Cyber Rating agencies – RiskRecon score (out of 10, 6 -month average)
 — Cyber Rating agencies – BitSight score (out of 900, 6 -month average) — Capgemini group
Limited digital Inclusion  — Total number of Digital Inclusion beneficiaries  
(Digital Academy  + Digital Literacy  + Tech for Positive Futures )
 — Number of Digital Academy  graduates
 — Number of Digital Academy  graduates hires by Capgemini
 — Number of Digital Literacy  programs beneficiaries — Capgemini group
 — Capgemini France
 — Capgemini India
 — Capgemini USA
Compliance  — Proportion of headcount who completed the e -learning module 
on the ethics charter, the anti -corruption policy, cybersecurity, and 
anti -competition policy — Capgemini group

270
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT4our esG C oMMITMenT A s A resPonsIBLe Le Ader

271
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI551 ——  ANALYSIS OF CAPGEMINI GROUP CONSOLIDATED RESULTS  272
511   General comments on the Group’s activity in 2023 272
512		Comments	on	the	Capgemini	group	consolidated	financial	statements	and	outlook	for	2024	 276
52 ——  CONSOLIDATED ACCOUNTS  277
521   Consolidated Income Statement 277
522   Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 278
523   Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 279
524   Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 280
525   Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 281
526		Notes	to	consolidated	financial	statements	for	the	year	ended	December 31,	2023	 283
527		Statutory	auditors’	report	on	the	consolidated	financial	statements	 332
53 ——  COMMENTS ON THE CAPGEMINI SE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  337
531  Income Statement 337
532  Balance sheet 337
533  Appropriation of earnings 338
534  Share capital and ownership structure 339
54 —— 2023 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  341
541	 Balance	sheet	at	December 31,	2022	and	2023	 341
542	 Income	Statement	for	the	years	ended	December 31,	2022	and	2023	 343
543	 Notes	to	the	financial	statements	 344
544  Subsidiaries and investments 362
545		Statutory	auditors’	report	on	the	Company	financial	statements	 363
546   Statutory auditors’ special report on regulated agreements 367
55 —— OTHER FINANCIAL AND ACCOUNTING INFORMATION  368
551	 Five-years	financial	summary	 368FINANCIAL  
INFORMATION

FInAnCIAL InF orMATIon
Analysis of Capgemini group consolidated results
272
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT551  Analysis of Capgemini group consolidated results
511  General comments on the Group’s activity in 2023
Capgemini delivered a solid performance in 2023 despite the weak 
economic environment, with results exceeding or in line with its 
financial targets for the year. After two years of record growth, 
persisting macroeconomic challenges and rising geopolitical 
tensions led to a gradual market slowdown in 2023 that came in 
line with Group expectations.
Capgemini reported revenues of €22,522 million in 2023 up from 
€21,995 million the year before. Revenue growth at constant 
currency was +4.4%, within the target range of +4% to +7%. As 
anticipated, constant currency growth decelerated throughout 
the year, starting at +10.7% in Q1 and ending at -0.2% in Q4. The 
operating margin increased by +4% in value to €2,991 million or 
13.3% of revenues. This year -on-year improvement of 30 basis 
points exceeds the target of 0 -20 basis points set for 2023. Finally, 
organic free cash flow amounted to €1,963 million, above the target 
of “around €1.8 billion” set for the year.
While large corporations and organizations hold firm on their 
digital and sustainable ambitions, they are increasingly prioritizing 
operational agility and cost efficiency. This translates into strong 
demand for transformation programs with short payback, which 
leverages the Group’s high value -added service offerings most 
notably in Intelligent Industry, as well as in activities driven by 
Cloud, Data & Artificial Intelligence. However, client decision cycles 
lengthened in 2023 when compared with the strong demand 
environment that the Group had experienced in 2021 and 2022. 
These business trends impacted sectors and regions to varying 
degrees, resulting in greater contrast between Group operations. 
In this respect, Capgemini’s highly diversified business profile also 
contributed to the resilience of its performance in 2023.
Financial performance
Revenues increased by +2.4% year -on-year to €22,522 million in 
2023, up +4.4% at constant exchange rates. With acquisitions 
contributing +0.5 points to growth, organic growth (i.e., excluding 
the impact of currency fluctuations and changes in Group scope) 
reached +3.9%.
The ongoing shift in Capgemini’s portfolio of offerings towards more 
value creating services – combined with strengthened operational 
efficiency in a context of rising inflation and market slowdown – 
translated into a 40 basis points improvement of the gross margin 
to 26.9% of revenues. As a result, the cost of services rendered 
was €16,474 million, or 73.1% of revenues compared to 73.5% in 
2022. Selling expenses totaled €1,598 million or 7.1% of revenues, 
compared with 6.9% in 2022, while general and administrative 
expenses totaled €1,459 million or 6.5% of revenues, compared 
with 6.6% in 2022. Consequently, operating expenses totaled 
€19,531 million in 2023 compared with €19,128 million in 2022, and 
operating margin increased to 13.3% of revenues or €2,991 million, 
up 30 basis points and +4% in value year -on-year.Looking at operating costs by nature, it should be noted that the 
marginal increase in personnel costs – from 68.1% in 2022 to 68.2% 
of revenues in 2023 – was more than offset by the decrease in 
purchase and subcontracting from 13.9% to 13.2%. Travel expenses 
tend to stabilize and represented 1.4% of revenues in 2023.
Other operating income and expenses was a net expense of 
€645 million, compared with €474 million in 2022. This increase is 
mainly attributable to higher restructuring charges, which increased 
by €97 million, and to a change in French accounting practices as set 
by the French National Accounting Council (ANC), which resulted in 
an additional €63 million non -cash expense related to the annual 
employee share ownership plan ESOP 2023.
Capgemini’s operating profit was €2,346 million, or 10.4% of 
revenues, compared with €2,393 million in 2022.
The net financial expense was €42 million, compared with €129 million 
in 2022, this evolution being mainly driven by higher interest income 
in a context of rising interest rates.
The income tax expense was €626 million compared with €710 million 
last year. The effective tax rate was slightly down at 27.2%, compared 
with 28.1% in 2022 (excluding €73 million tax expenses related to 
the impact of the US tax reform).
Taking into account the share of profits of associates and non -controlling 
interests, for an aggregate amount of -€15 million, the Group share 
in net profit rose by + 7% year -on-year to €1 ,663 million. Basic 
earnings per share increased also by +7% to €9.70. Normalized 
earnings per share was €12.44 compared with €11.09 in 2022 and 
€11.52 excluding the tax expenses related to the impact of the 
US tax reform.
Group cash from operations increased to €3,308 million, compared 
with €3,161 million in 2022, mainly due to the combined impact 
of revenue growth and improved operating margin. Income tax 
payments increased by €12 million to €463 million. Working capital 
requirement increased from €193 million in 2022 to €320 million in 
2023. Consequently, net cash from operating activities was almost 
stable at €2,525 million, compared with €2,517 million the year 
before. Capital expenditure (net of disposals) totaled €254 million 
or 1.1% of revenues, compared with 1.3% in 2022. Interest paid 
and received resulted in a cash outflow limited to €11 million, 
compared with €71 million in 2022. As a result, organic free cash 
flow generation reached a record level of €1,963 million in 2023, 
compared with €1,852 million in 2022.
Capgemini invested €343 million in acquisitions during the past 
year. The Group also paid dividends of €559 million (€3.25 per 
share) and allocated €883 million (net) to share buyback programs. 
Finally, the 10th employee share ownership plan, which proved 
highly successful and thus contributed to maintaining employee 
shareholding between 8% to 9% of the share capital, led to a gross 
capital increase of €467 million.

FInAnCIAL InF orMATIon
Analysis of Capgemini group consolidated results
273
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI5Capgemini continued to strengthen its financial structure in 2023 on 
the back of its strong cash flow generation. At December 31, 2023, 
the Group had cash and cash equivalents and cash management assets of €3.7 billion. After accounting for borrowings of €5.7 billion 
and derivative instruments, Group net debt is €2.0 billion, down 
compared with €2.6 billion at December 31, 2022.
Operations by region
29%
9%20%
30%12%
North America
Asia-Paciﬁc & Latin AmericaFrance
Rest of EuropeUnited Kingdom & Ireland
At constant exchange rates, the united Kingdom and Ireland  
region (12% of Group revenues) maintained a robust momentum in 
2023 with revenues growing +7.9%. This performance was primarily 
driven by the Public Sector as well as the Consumer Goods & Retail 
and Manufacturing sectors, while activities in the Financial Services 
and TMT sectors were roughly stable year -on-year. The operating 
margin reached a record level of 18.6% compared with 18.0% in 2022.
The rest of e urope  region (30% of Group revenues) also performed 
well with revenue growth of +7.6% fueled to a large extent by the 
Public Sector and the Manufacturing sector. The Energy & Utilities 
sector was also buoyant while growth in Financial Services was 
limited. The operating margin was 11.7%, up from 11.6% a year earlier.
France  (20% of Group revenues) revenues grew +6. 1 %, mainly 
supported by strong growth in the Manufacturing and Consumer 
Goods & Retail sectors. TMT was the only sector to contract in 
2023. The operating margin further improved by 50 basis points 
year -on-year to 12.6%.
Conversely, revenues in north America  (29% of Group revenues) 
decreased slightly by -1.3%. The Manufacturing and Services 
sectors showed good growth. Revenue decline was particularly 
visible in the TMT and Consumer Goods & Retail sectors, but more 
limited in the Financial Services sector. The operating margin was 
15.6% as in 2022.
Finally, revenues in the Asia ‑Pacific and Latin America  region 
(9% of Group revenues) grew +4.6%. Growth was mostly driven by 
the Asia-Pacific region where Consumer Goods & Retail, Services, 
Manufacturing and the Public Sector enjoyed double -digit growth 
rates, whereas Financial Services remained virtually stable, and TMT contracted visibly. The operating margin improved substantially 
to 12.2% compared with 10.6% the year before.
Operations by business
62% 9%29%
Applications
& TechnologyStrategy &
TransformationOperations &
Engineering
When determining activity trends by business and in accordance 
with internal operating performance measures, growth at constant 
exchange rates is calculated based on total revenues, i.e., before 
elimination of inter -business billing. The Group considers this 
to be more representative of activity levels by business. As its 
businesses change, an increasing number of contracts require a 
range of business expertise for delivery, leading to inter -business 
billing flows.

FInAnCIAL InF orMATIon
Analysis of Capgemini group consolidated results
274
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT5At constant exchange rates, strategy & Transformation  consulting 
services (9% of Group revenues) reported a +8.6% growth in total 
revenues in 2023. This sustained momentum illustrates the strength 
of the Group’s strategic positioning as a partner for its clients’ 
digital and sustainable ambitions.Applications & Technology  services (62% of Group revenues and 
Capgemini’s core business) reported a +4.5% increase in total 
revenues.
Finally, operations & e ngineering  services total revenues (29% 
of Group revenues) grew +2.8%.
The following table presents the utilization rates of productive employees.
utilization rate2022 2023 
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 
Strategy & Transformation 69% 69% 68% 69% 66% 68% 67% 70% 
Applications & Technology(1) 78% 78% 78% 78% 78% 79% 79% 80% 
(1) 2022 data restated for comparison purpose .
Headcount
At December 31, 2023, the Group’s total headcount stood at 
340,443, compared with 359,567 employees one year before. 
This represents a net decrease of 19,124, or -5.3% year -on-year. 
The average headcount is up year -on-year, from 347,758 in 2022 
to 349,793, in 2023.
The total number of entries into the Group in 2023 was 62,654. 
The voluntary attrition rate amounted to 16.7% in 2023 compared 
to 25.5% in 2022.
Bookings
Bookings totaled €23,887 million in 2023, a year -on-year increase of 
+2.6% at constant exchange rates, representing a book‑to‑bill  ratio 
for the year of 1.06. This reflects sustained commercial momentum 
despite lengthened decision cycles.
Significant events in 2023
Acquisitions
Capgemini continued its bolt -on acquisition strategy with three 
deals announced in 2023 (for more information, please refer to 
Chapter 1 – Section 1.3.2).
Commercial momentum
Capgemini benefited in 2023 from a strong client demand for digital 
transformation services across all its main sectors:
 In the Manufacturing and Life s ciences sector:
 —  in the Intelligent Industry market, Capgemini created a 
dedicated & secured Software Offshore Delivery Center 
based out of India for a leading US manufacturer of medical 
devices to accelerate their digital transformation ;
 —  in the same market, the Group was selected by a large 
US defense manufacturer to design and develop a digital 
plant to modernize how they schedule procure materials 
and innovative products manufacturing, combining our 
capabilities in complex engineering and manufacturing 
methods, data acquisition, connectivity & IT infrastructure ;
 —  again in the Intelligent Industry market, a global consumer 
electronics player selected Capgemini to optimize the supply 
chain for its US-based gigafactory via the implementation of 
SAP S4 HANA to enable battery production and distribution at 
scale, while improving waste management and recyclability ;
 —  in the Customer First market, the Group won several exclusive 
framework agreements to implement Salesforce solutions 
across various regions and business units ; —  in the same market, a French -based world leader in gases, 
technologies and services for industry and health renewed 
its trust in Capgemini to support its digital business strategy 
in B2B e -commerce and distributor network management ;
 —  a premium European car manufacturing group chose the 
Group to build and operate a cloud -based development 
platform, leveraging Data & AI and high -performance 
computing technologies to support its autonomous driving 
development platform  ;
 —  a German leader in the healthcare industry chose Capgemini 
to provide innovative IT and digital transformation services 
for its operating business segments, as part of a major 
change and transformation program of public and private 
cloud to enable innovation and meet sustainability and 
profitability goals  ;
 —  the Group was selected by a leading global provider of 
advanced materials and performance coatings to unify its 
diverse ERP landscape and transform business processes to 
create standard, best -practice operating procedures across 
its operations ;
 —  in the area of sustainability services, Capgemini was 
chosen by a premium car manufacturer to improve 
energy management and use of data analytics across all 
manufacturing areas including maintenance, quality, in -plant 
logistics and production execution ;
 In the Financial s ervices sector:
 —  in the Customer First market, a US-based credit union focused 
on serving the armed forces chose Capgemini as the partner 
of choice to modernize these customer service applications 
with redesigned processes and improved experience for 
both customers and employees; 
 —  in the same market, the Group was selected by one of the 
largest general insurance company in India to revamp 
their health Insurance portal and enhance the customer 
experience; 
 —  a leading Belgium financial institution awarded to Capgemini 
a contract to provide on -site support, and a Level -1 Service 
Desk for their 12,000 bank and insurance customers across 
all their branches; 
 —  the Group was selected as preferred strategic partner by a 
large US-based life insurance company to modernize their 
operations, improve maturity of service delivery and drive 
cost efficiency by leveraging technology and automation 
solutions;

FInAnCIAL InF orMATIon
Analysis of Capgemini group consolidated results
275
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI5 —  a leading American digital bank and payment services 
company renewed its strategic partnership with Capgemini 
for an additional three years. The Group will provide them 
with ongoing support on their digital transformation and 
cloud adoption journey; 
 —  Capgemini was selected by a leading credit scoring institution 
in the Middle-East region to leverage Data & AI within their IT 
infrastructure and drive business value via better data quality 
and analytical capabilities; 
 —  a central bank in Europe chose the Group to accelerate their 
digital ambitions, helping them to optimize their on -premise 
datacenter landscape, strengthen the maturity of their 
datacenter services, and support their transitioning to the 
cloud; 
 —  a major US bank selected Capgemini to modernize their 
Consumer Credit Decisioning Platforms by leveraging Data & 
AI to build a unified and intelligent system to better manage 
credit risk across consumer loans portfolios.
 In the Consumer Goods & r etail sector:
 —  one of the largest US convenience retailers selected 
Capgemini to leverage Data & AI solutions across several 
key business value themes, including improving demand 
forecasting, AI-augmented merchandise ordering process 
and generating valuable insights to improve the customer 
experience; 
 —  the Group signed a multi -year transformational agreement 
with a leading UK distribution services company to 
implement a new cloud -native digital platform, serving their 
multi -million e -commerce customers, and enabling the client 
to move to a product -centric delivery model with a key focus 
on increasing business agility; 
 —  a leading Asia-Pacific integrated logistics services provider 
chose Capgemini as their sole strategic IT services partner, 
providing end -to-end services ranging from application 
ser vices to cloud & infrastructure ser vices, ser vice management,  
service desk and end -user services; 
 —  in the area of sustainability services, a world leader in 
cosmetics asked the Group to help them to monitor and steer 
greenhouse gas emissions across their entire value chain, by 
designing and rolling -out a solution to consolidate, analyze 
and report their carbon footprint at product reference level.
 In the TMT (Telecoms, Media & Technology) and s ervices sector:
 —  in the Customer First market, a leading UK-based recruitment 
services firm chose Capgemini to design a roadmap to 
leverage Data & AI and machine learning in order to drive 
growth and margin improvement, and create a sustainable 
competitive advantage via better customer intimacy; 
 —  the Group signed a multi -year agreement with a leading 
Danish telecommunications company, expanding on a 
decade -long partnership, to assume the responsibility for 
their business -critical systems and provide application 
development and management as a service; 
 —  Capgemini was selected by a leading Nordic telco operator 
to accelerate their 5G small -cell product development 
roadmap and time -to-market, building on our 5G software 
knowledge and deep ecosystem partnership with network 
infrastructure suppliers; —  a global US leader in workforce solutions chose the Group to 
transform their Finance & Accounting operations with a goal 
of driving operating efficiencies by deploying Data & AI and 
automation solutions; 
 —  Capgemini signed a multiyear contract with a European 
global leader in the semi -conductor industry to develop 
a secured and cloud -based communication platform, 
in order to improve product innovation and customer 
service management, while strongly contributing to their 
environmental sustainability targets; 
 —  in the area of sustainability services, a global leader in media 
& entertainment services selected Capgemini for a multi -year 
contract to design and implement intelligent operations with 
measurable benefits in terms of sustainable impact.
 In the Public s ector:
 —  in the Customer First market, a German public institution 
chose Capgemini to design and implement a large 
transformative customer experience program, including 
Data & AI strategy and public cloud advisory services; 
 —  in the same market, the Group was chosen by a governmental 
employment agency in Europe to implement a new Customer 
Relationship Management (CRM) and Customer 360  View 
solution for its 1,200 agents; 
 —  Capgemini was selected by a large governmental body 
in Asia-Pacific as a key technology partner to deliver IT 
infrastructure managed services and help this nation -wide 
public service to offer better support to its end -users; 
 —  a UK government -owned company managing a large 
transport infrastructure signed a multi -year contract with 
the Group for digital workplace and other end -user services 
for its professional community; 
 —  as a long -time partner to transnational R&D initiative in the 
field of nuclear energy, based in France, Capgemini provides 
Engineering Services to help to design decarbonized power 
plants of the future and won a new contract to help design a 
critical component of the overall program; 
 —  in the area of sustainability services, the Group was selected 
by a large French regional public agency to reduce local 
citizens’ carbon footprint by designing and developing an 
application to promote soft mobility, limit car traffic and 
encourage the use of public transport.
 In the e nergy & u tilities sector:
 —  in the Intelligent Industry market, Capgemini was selected to 
design a digital factory for a global leader in nuclear energy, 
from engineering up to commissioning of the future nuclear 
projects and plants; 
 —  in the same market, a pan-European joint venture initiative 
designed to provide green batteries to the automotive 
industry selected the Group to support the launch and 
up-scaling of a gigafactory; 
 —  again in the Intelligent Industry market, Capgemini was 
chosen by a leading European power & gas utility company 
to support a program aimed to replace natural gas by High 
Calorific Value Gas in France;

FInAnCIAL InF orMATIon
Analysis of Capgemini group consolidated results
276
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT5 —  in the Customer First market, a major Brazilian energy 
utility chose the Group to transform client -facing workforce 
management to deliver operational efficiencies and process 
optimization in order to improve customer satisfaction; 
 —  in the area of sustainability services, Capgemini has partnered 
with a leading National Water Distribution company in 
Asia to design and roll -out a digital water -metering related cloud -based storage system to obtain real -time data about 
water usage and leak detection; 
 —  in the same area, the Group was selected by a UK-based 
leading player of smart metering systems to support the 
deployment of equipment which enables to expand the 
smart metering network and to maximize use of renewable 
energy sources.
512  Comments on the Capgemini group consolidated financial statements 
and outlook for 2024
Consolidated Income Statement
Consolidated revenues  total €22,522 million for the year ended 
December 31, 2023, compared with €21,995 million in 2022, up 
2.4% on reported figures and 4.4% at constant exchange rates.
operating expenses  total €1 9 ,53 1 million, compared with  
€19,128 million in 2022.
The operating margin  is therefore €2,991 million in 2023, compared 
with €2,867 million in 2022, representing a margin rate of 13.3% 
(13.0% in 2022).
other operating income and expenses  is a net expense of  
€645 million in 2023, compared with €474 million in 2022, increasing 
due to higher restructuring costs and from the prospective change 
of the IFRS 2 expense methodology measuring the benefit granted 
to the employees under share ownership plans.
Operating profit  is therefore €2,346 million (10.4% of revenues), 
compared with €2,393 million in 2022 (10.9% of revenues).
The net financial expense  is €42 million, compared with €129 million 
in 2022. This decrease was mainly due to a fall in net finance costs 
due to an increase in income from cash and cash equivalents.
The income tax expense  is €626 million, compared with €710 million 
in 2022. The effective tax rate is 27.2% in 2023, lower than in 2022.
Profit for the year attributable to owners  of the Company is 
€1,663 million in 2023, compared with €1,547 million in 2022, after 
taking into account share of profit of associates and non -controlling 
interests.
normalized earnings per share  is €1 2.44 based on an average 
of 171,350,138 ordinary shares outstanding in 2023, compared 
with €11.09 based on an average of 170,251,066 ordinary shares 
outstanding in 2022.
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position
equity attributable to owners  of  the  Compan y  total ed   
€10,454 million on December 31, 2023, up €727 million on 
December 31, 2022. This increase was mainly due to:
 —  the net profit for the period of €1,663 million; 
 —  the impact of incentive and employee share ownership 
instruments of €755  million, including €465  million in 
respect of the share capital increase under the ESOP 2023 
international employee share ownership plan, partially 
offset by:
 —  the payment to shareholders of dividends of €559 million; —  the cancellation of treasury shares in the amount of 
€880 million;
 —  the negative impact of other comprehensive income 
of €258  million, including translation adjustments of 
€255 million; 
non-current assets totaled €14,956 million on December 31, 2023, 
down €181 million on December 31, 2022, mainly due to the use of 
deferred tax assets in the period offset by the increase in goodwill 
as a result of acquisitions in the period and foreign exchange 
impacts on goodwill denominated in US dollars.
non-current liabilities  totaled €6,978 million on December 31, 2023, 
down €693 million vs. December 31, 2022. This decrease is mainly 
due to the transfer to current liabilities of the short -term portion 
of the 2018 bond issue maturing in October 2024.
Trade receivables and contract assets  totaled €5,088 million 
on December 31, 2023, compared with €5,253 million on  
December 31, 2022. Trade receivables and contract assets 
excluding contract costs and net of contract liabilities totaled 
€3,624 million on December 31, 2023, compared with €3,643 million 
on December 31, 2022.
Accounts and notes payable  mainly consist of trade payables 
and related accounts, personnel costs and accrued taxes other 
than income tax and total €4,568 million on December 31, 2023, 
compared with €4,749 million on December 31, 2022.
Consolidated net debt  totaled €2,047 million on December 31, 2023, 
compared with €2,566 million on December 31, 2022. This 
€519 million decrease in net debt vs. December 31, 2022 chiefly 
reflects organic free cash flow generation of €1,963 million and 
the €465 million share capital increase following the issue of new 
shares under the ESOP international employee share ownership 
plan, partially offset by:
 —  net cash outflows of €876 million in respect of transactions 
in treasury shares; 
 —  the payment to shareholders of dividends of €559 million; 
 —  outflows on company acquisitions, net of cash and cash 
equivalents acquired, of €343 million.
Outlook for 2024
The Group’s financial target for 2024 are:
 —  revenue growth of 0% to 3% at constant currency; 
 —  operating margin of 13.3% and 13.6%; 
 —  organic free cash flow of around €1.9 billion.
The inorganic contribution to growth should be marginal at the 
lower end of the target range, and up to 1 point at the upper end.

FInAnCIAL InF orMATIon
Consolidated accounts
277
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI552  Consolidated accounts
521  Consolidated Income Statement
 
(in millions of euros)    
Notes 2022 2023 
Amount % Amount  % 
Revenues 4 and 6 21,995 100 22,522 100 
Cost of services rendered   (16,163) (73.5) (16,474) (73.1) 
Selling expenses   (1,518) (6.9) (1,598) (7.1) 
General and administrative expenses   (1,447) (6.6) (1,459) (6.5) 
Operating expenses 7 (19,128) (870) (19,531) (867) 
Operating margin  (1)   2,867 130 2,991 133 
Other operating income and expenses 8 (474) (2.1) (645) (2.9) 
Operating profit   2,393 109 2,346 104 
Net finance costs 9 (67) (0.3) 17 0.1 
Other financial income and expense 9 (62) (0.3) (59) (0.3) 
Net financial expense   (129) (06) (42) (02) 
Income tax expense 10 (710) (33) (626) (28) 
Share of profit of associates   (4) - (10) - 
PROFIT FOR THE YEAR   1,550 70 1,668 74 
Attributable to:       
Owners of the Company   1,547 7.0 1,663 7.4 
Non‑controlling interests   3 ‑ 5 ‑ 
EARNINGS PER SHARE       
Average number of shares outstanding during the period   170,251,066  171,350,138  
Basic earnings per share (in euros)  11 909  970  
Diluted average number of shares outstanding   176,019,736  177,396,346  
Diluted earnings per share (in euros)  11 879  937  
(1) Operating margin, an alternative performance measure monitored by the Group, is defined in Note 3 – Alternative performance measures.

FInAnCIAL InF orMATIon
Consolidated accounts
278
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT5522  Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
(in millions of euros) Notes 2022 2023 
Actuarial gains and losses on defined benefit pension plans,  
net of tax (1) 25 195 (57) 
Remeasurement of cash flow and net investment hedging instruments, 
net of tax (2) 24 (66) 50 
Other, net of tax (1)   4 4 
Translation adjustments  (2) 12 112 (255) 
OTHER ITEMS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME   245 (258) 
Profit for the year (reminder)   1,550 1,668 
Total comprehensive income for the period   1,795 1,410 
Attributable to:     
Owners of the Company   1,792 1,405 
Non‑controlling interests   3 5 
(1) Other items of comprehensive income that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss.
(2) Other items of comprehensive income that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss.

FInAnCIAL InF orMATIon
Consolidated accounts
279
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI5523  Consolidated Statement of Financial Position
(in millions of euros) Notes December 31, 2022 December 31, 2023 
Goodwill 13 and 16 11,090 11,213 
Intangible assets 13 906 798 
Property, plant and equipment 14 876 788 
Lease right -of-use assets 15 721 783 
Deferred tax assets 17 708 560 
Other non -current assets 19 836 814 
Total non -current assets   15,137 14,956 
Contract costs 20 140 132 
Contract assets 20 1,784 1,670 
Trade receivables 20 3,329 3,286 
Current tax receivables   106 148 
Other current assets 21 795 811 
Cash management assets 22 386 161 
Cash and cash equivalents 22 3,802 3,536 
Total current assets   10,342 9,744 
TOTAL ASSETS   25,479 24,700 
(in millions of euros) Notes December 31, 2022 December 31, 2023 
Share capital   1,389 1,381 
Additional paid -in capital   3,706 3,482 
Retained earnings and other reserves   3,085 3,928 
Profit for the year   1,547 1,663 
Equity (attributable to owners of the Company)   9,727 10,454 
Non -controlling interests   16 19 
Total equity   9,743 10,473 
Long -term borrowings 22 5,655 5,071 
Deferred tax liabilities 17 308 275 
Provisions for pensions and other post -employment benefits 25 365 331 
Non -current provisions 26 339 327 
Non -current lease liabilities 15 533 598 
Other non -current liabilities 27 471 376 
Total non -current liabilities   7,671 6,978 
Short -term borrowings and bank overdrafts 22 1,102 675 
Accounts and notes payable 28 4,749 4,568 
Contract liabilities 20 1,470 1,332 
Current provisions 26 103 118 
Current tax liabilities   68 123 
Current lease liabilities 15 257 251 
Other current liabilities 27 316 182 
Total current liabilities   8,065 7,249 
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES   25,479 24,700 

FInAnCIAL InF orMATIon
Consolidated accounts
280
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT5524  Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
(in millions of euros) Notes 2022 2023 
Profit for the year   1,550 1,668 
Depreciation, amortization and impairment of fixed assets and lease right -of-use assets   719 700 
Change in provisions   (77) (65) 
Losses/(Gains) on disposals of assets and other   13 22 
Expenses relating to share based compensation   160 185 
Expenses relating to employee ownership plan   4 67 
Net finance costs 9 67 (17) 
Income tax expense/(income) 10 710 626 
Unrealized (gains) losses on changes in fair value and other financial items   15 122 
Cash flows from operations before net finance costs and income tax (A)   3,161 3,308 
Income tax paid (B)   (451) (463) 
Change in trade receivables, contract assets net of liabilities and contract costs   (490) 1 
Change in accounts and notes payable   115 (168) 
Change in other receivables/payables   182 (153) 
Change in operating working capital (C) 23 (193) (320) 
NET CASH FROM (USED IN) OPERATING ACTIVITIES (D=A+B+C)   2,517 2,525 
Acquisitions of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 13 and 14 (290) (259) 
Proceeds from disposals of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 7 5
Acquisitions of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets,  
net of disposals   (283) (254) 
Cash (outflows) inflows on business combinations net of  
cash and cash equivalents acquired   (204) (343) 
Cash (outflows) inflows in respect of cash management assets   (19) 215 
Other cash (outflows) inflows, net   (153) (1) 
Cash outflows from other investing activities   (376) (129) 
NET CASH FROM (USED IN) INVESTING ACTIVITIES (E)   (659) (383) 
Proceeds from issues of share capital   507 465 
Dividends paid   (409) (559) 
Net payments relating to transactions in Capgemini SE shares   (826) (876) 
Proceeds from borrowings 23 468 1,905 
Repayments of borrowings 23 (482) (2,932) 
Repayments of lease liabilities 15 (311) (297) 
Interest paid   (136) (182) 
Interest received   65 171 
NET CASH FROM (USED IN) FINANCING ACTIVITIES (F)   (1,124) (2,305) 
NET INCREASE (DECREASE) IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS (G=D+E+F)   734 (163) 
Effect of exchange rate movements on cash and cash equivalents (H)   (58) (115) 
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT BEGINNING OF PERIOD (I) 22 3,119 3,795 
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT END OF PERIOD (G+H+I) 22 3,795 3,517 

FInAnCIAL InF orMATIon
Consolidated accounts
281
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI5525  Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
(in millions of euros) Number of 
shares share 
capitalAdditional 
paid -in 
capitalTreasury 
sharesConso -
lidated 
retained 
earnings 
and other 
reservesIncome and  
expense recognized  
in equityEquity 
(attribu -
table  
to owners 
of the 
Company)  Non-  
controlling 
interests  Total 
equity Translation 
adjustments other
At December 31, 2022 173,582,113 1,389 3,706 (288) 5,350 (8) (422) 9,727 16 9,743 
Dividends paid out for 
2022 - - - - (559) - - (559) - (559) 
Incentive instruments 
and employee share 
ownership 3,200,000 25 440 233 57 - - 755 - 755 
Elimination of  
treasury shares - - - (879) (1) - - (880) - (880) 
Share capital reduction 
by cancellation of 
treasury shares (4,174,000) (33) (664) 697 - - - - - - 
Transactions with 
non -controlling interests 
and others - - - - 6 - - 6 (2) 4 
Transactions with 
shareholders and 
others (974,000) (8) (224) 51 (497) - - (678) (2) (680) 
Income and expense 
recognized in equity - - - - 2 (255) (5) (258) - (258) 
Profit for the year - - - - 1,663 - - 1,663 5 1,668 
AT DECEMBER 31, 2023 172,608,113 1,381 3,482 (237) 6,518 (263) (427) 10,454 19 10,473 

FInAnCIAL InF orMATIon
Consolidated accounts
282
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT5(in millions of euros) Number of 
shares share 
capitalAdditional 
paid -in 
capitalTreasury 
sharesConso -
lidated 
retained 
earnings 
and other 
reservesIncome and  
expense recognized  
in equityEquity 
(attribu -
table  
to owners 
of the 
Company)  Non-  
controlling 
interests  Total 
equity Translation 
adjustments other
At December 31, 2021 172,391,524 1,379 3,609 (79) 4,233 (120) (555) 8,467 12 8,479 
Impact of the first -time 
application of the 
IFRS Interpretation 
Committee (IFRIC) 
decision published in 
April 2021 on SaaS type 
contracts - - - - (2) - - (2) - (2) 
At January 1, 2022 172,391,524 1,379 3,609 (79) 4,231 (120) (555) 8,465 12 8,477 
Dividends paid out for 
2021 - - - - (409) - - (409) - (409) 
Incentive instruments 
and employee share 
ownership 3,500,000 28 479 218 (19) - - 706 - 706 
Elimination of treasury 
shares - - - (827) 1 - - (826) - (826) 
Share capital reduction 
by cancellation of 
treasury shares (2,309,411) (18) (382) 400 - - - - - - 
Transactions with 
non -controlling interests 
and others - - - - (1) - - (1) 1 - 
Transactions with 
shareholders and 
others 1,190,589 10 97 (209) (428) - - (530) 1 (529) 
Income and expense 
recognized in equity - - - - - 112 133 245 - 245 
Profit for the year - - - - 1,547 - - 1,547 3 1,550 
AT DECEMBER 31, 2022 173,582,113 1,389 3,706 (288) 5,350 (8) (422) 9,727 16 9,743 

FInAnCIAL InF orMATIon
Consolidated accounts
283
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI5526  Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 
December 31, 2023
Note 1   Accounting basis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 284
Note 2  Consolidation principles and Group structure   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 285
Note 3   Alternative performance measures . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 286
Note 4  o perating segments   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 286
Note 5   Consolidated Income s tatement   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 287
Note 6   r evenues . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 288
Note 7   o perating expenses by nature   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 290
Note 8   o ther operating income and expenses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 290
Note 9   Net financial expense   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 291
Note 10   Income tax expense   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 291
Note 11   e arnings per share   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 292
Note 12   e quity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 294
Note 13   Goodwill and intangible assets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 302
Note 14   Property, plant and equipment (PP& e). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 304
Note 15   Lease right -of-use assets   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 306
Note 16   Cash -generating units and asset impairment tests . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 308
Note 17   d eferred taxes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 309
Note 18   Financial instruments   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 311
Note 19   o ther non -current assets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 313
Note 20   Trade receivables, contract assets and contract costs  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 313
Note 21   o ther current assets   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 314
Note 22   n et debt/net cash and cash equivalents . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 314
Note 23   Cash flows . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 318
Note 24   Currency, interest rate and counterparty risk management . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 320
Note 25   Provisions for pensions and other post‑employment benefits   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 323
Note 26   n on-current and current provisions   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 326
Note 27   o ther non -current and current liabilities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 327
Note 28   Accounts and notes payable   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 327
Note 29   n umber of employees   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 327
Note 30   Off‑balance sheet commitments   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 328
Note 31   related -party transactions   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 329
Note 32   s ubsequent events . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 329
Note 33   List of the main consolidated companies by country   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 330
Note 34   Audit fees   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 331

FInAnCIAL InF orMATIon
Consolidated accounts
284
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT5Note 1  Accounting basis
The consolidated financial statements for the year ended  
December 31, 2023 of Capgemini SE, a European company 
headquartered at 11 rue de Tilsitt, 75017, Paris, France and 
the notes thereto were adopted by the Board of Directors on  
February 13, 2024. The consolidated financial statements will be 
presented for approval to the Shareholders’ Meeting scheduled 
for May 16, 2024.
A)  IFRS standards base
Pursuant to European Commission Regulation no. 1606/2002 of 
July 19, 2002, the 2023 consolidated financial statements have been 
prepared in accordance with international accounting standards 
(IFRS, International Financial Reporting Standards) as issued by the 
International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and endorsed by 
the European Union (EU).
The Group, a responsible and multicultural global leader partnering 
with companies to transform and manage their business by 
harnessing the power of technology, also takes account of the 
positions adopted by Numeum (merger of Syntec Numérique and 
TECH IN France), an organization representing major consulting and 
computer services companies in France, regarding the application 
of certain IFRS.
The main accounting policies are presented at the beginning of 
each note to the consolidated financial statements.
B)  New standards and interpretations applicable in 
2023
a)  new standards, amendments and interpretations of 
mandatory effect at January 1st, 2023
The accounting policies applied by the Capgemini group 
are unchanged on those applied for the preparation of the  
December 31, 2022 consolidated financial statements.
The standards, amendments, and interpretations which entered 
into mandatory effect on 2023 did not have a material impact on 
the Group financial statements.
b)  Other new standards not yet in effect at January 1st, 2023 
or adopted early
The Group did not adopt early any new standards not yet in effect 
at January 1st, 2023.
In 2021, the Organization for Economic Co -operation and 
Development (OECD) adopted a reform of international tax rules 
proposing in particular a minimum tax of 15% on profits made by 
multinational groups meeting certain criteria. These “Global Rules 
to Combat Tax Base Erosion” or “GloBE Rules”, which are intended 
to be introduced by jurisdictions into their domestic law, require 
the concerned groups to calculate a “GloBE” profit and the related 
taxes jurisdiction by jurisdiction. When this calculation results in an 
effective tax rate (ETR) of less than 15%, they require the groups 
to pay additional tax on profits, the level of which must make it 
possible to achieve the minimum target ETR of 15%.
In December 2022, the Council of the European Union adopted 
the “Pillar 2” Directive, which aims to transpose the GloBE Rules 
homogeneously within Member States; these must transpose 
the directive for a progressive application of the measures from 
January 1st, 2024.France has thus transposed the rules of this directive into its 
national law through the Finance Law for 2024.
During the first half of 2023, the IASB published an amendment to 
IAS 12 International Tax Reform – Pillar 2 Model Rules, for immediate 
application, which came into force following its adoption by the 
European Union on November 8th, 2023.
The proposed amendments to IAS 12 provide in particular:
 —  a temporary exemption from the recognition of deferred 
taxes resulting from the implementation of the Pillar 
2 international tax reform; 
 —  qualitative and/or quantitative information to be published in 
the notes to the consolidated financial statements allowing, 
on the basis of information known or that can reasonably 
be estimated, to understand the Group’s exposure to this 
reform; 
 —  a separate presentation of the current income tax which 
will result from the application of the new International Tax 
Reform – Pillar 2 after its entry into force in 2024.
During the 2023 financial year, the Group carried out a review of 
the scope of companies and jurisdictions concerned by this tax 
reform and organized its internal processes in order to comply with 
these new obligations applicable from January 1st, 2024. The Group 
also carried out an impact analysis of the Safe Harbour measures 
in order to determine the impact of the reform on the accounts 
established after January 1st, 2024. Based on the tax rates of the 
jurisdictions in which the Group is established and simulations of 
Safe Harbour measures, the Group does not expect at this stage 
a significant impact from the adoption of the GloBE Rules on its 
income tax expense and on income tax paid from January 1st, 2024.
C)  Use of estimates
The preparation of consolidated financial statements involves the 
use of estimates and assumptions which may have an impact on 
the reported values of assets and liabilities at the period end or 
on certain items of either net profit or the income and expenses 
recognized directly in equity for the year. Estimates are based 
on economic data and assumptions which are likely to vary over 
time and interpretations of local regulation when necessary. They 
have notably been made in an ongoing uncertain economic and 
geopolitical context. These estimates are subject to a degree 
of uncertainty and mainly concern revenue recognition on a 
percentage -of-completion basis, provisions, measurement of the 
amount of intangible assets and deferred tax assets, provisions for 
pensions and other post -employment benefits, the fair value of 
derivatives and the calculation of the tax expense. Climate change 
risks result from both increasingly frequent exposure to extreme 
weather events and transition to a low energy business model. The 
Group considers the financial consequences of damage directly 
related to extreme weather events to be limited. The Group has 
also taken the effects of its sustainable development policy into 
account in the main closing estimates.

FInAnCIAL InF orMATIon
Consolidated accounts
285
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI5Note 2 Consolidation principles and Group structure
Consolidation methods
The accounts of companies directly or indirectly controlled by the 
parent company are fully consolidated. The parent company is 
deemed to exercise control over an entity when it has the power 
to govern the financial and operating policies of the entity so as 
to obtain benefits from its activities.
Companies in which the parent company directly or indirectly 
exercises significant influence over their management, without 
however exercising full or joint control, are accounted for by the 
equity method. This method consists of recording the Group’s share 
in profit for the year of the associate in the Income Statement. 
The Group’s share in net assets of the associate is recorded under 
“other non -current assets” in the Consolidated Statement of 
Financial Position.
Details of the scope of consolidation are provided in Note 33 – List 
of the main consolidated companies by country.
All consolidated companies prepared their accounts to  
December 31, 2023 in accordance with the accounting policies 
adopted by the Group.
Inter -company transactions are eliminated on consolidation, as 
well as inter -company profits.
Business combinations
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition 
method. Under this method, the identifiable assets acquired and 
liabilities assumed are recognized at fair value at the acquisition 
date and may be adjusted during the 12 months following this date.
Foreign currency translation
The consolidated accounts presented in these consolidated financial 
statements have been prepared in euros.
The Consolidated Statements of Financial Position of subsidiaries 
denominated in foreign currencies are translated into euros at 
year -end rates of exchange with the exception of equity accounts, 
which are carried at their historical values. Income statements 
denominated in foreign currencies are translated into euros at 
the average rates of exchange for the year. However, for certain 
material transactions, it may be relevant to use a specific rate of 
exchange. Differences arising from translation at these different 
rates are recognized directly in equity under “Translation reserves” 
and have no impact on the Income Statement.Exchange differences arising on monetary items which form an 
integral part of the net investment in foreign subsidiaries are 
recognized in equity. The qualification of monetary items as a net 
investment is reviewed at each closing by the Group.
Exchange differences on receivables and payables denominated in 
a foreign currency are recorded in operating profit or net financial 
expense, depending on the type of transaction concerned.
The exchange rates used to translate the financial statements of 
the Group’s main subsidiaries into euros are as follows:
 Average rate Closing rate
 2022 2023  2022 2023  
Australian dollar 0.65956 0.61445 0.63723 0.61489 
Brazilian real 0.18432 0.18521 0.17735 0.18650 
Canadian dollar 0.73052 0.68519 0.69252 0.68297 
Chinese renminbi yuan 0.14131 0.13067 0.13590 0.12737 
Indian rupee 0.01210 0.01120 0.01134 0.01088 
Norwegian krone 0.09906 0.08760 0.09511 0.08896 
Polish zloty 0.21353 0.22033 0.21364 0.23044 
Pound sterling 1.17321 1.14970 1.12749 1.15068 
Swedish krona 0.09413 0.08720 0.08991 0.09012 
US dollar 0.95092 0.92471 0.93756 0.90498 
Exchange gains and losses on inter-company 
transactions
The results and financial position of a foreign subsidiary are included 
in the Group’s consolidated financial statements after the elimination 
of inter-company balances and transactions. However, a foreign 
exchange gain or loss arising on an inter-company monetary asset 
or liability (e.g. an inter-company receivable denominated in a 
currency different from the functional currency of the subsidiary) 
cannot be eliminated. Such foreign exchange gains and losses are 
recognized in the Income Statement or in Income and expense 
recognized directly in equity, if the underlying forms an integral 
part of the net investment in the foreign operation (e.g. a loan 
with no fixed maturity).
The fair values of inter-company hedging instruments relating to 
inter-company operating transactions performed as part of the 
centralized management of currency risk in the parent company 
are eliminated.
In 2023, the Group made a number of targeted acquisitions in USA, the United Kingdom, Central Europe and Japan. The contribution 
of these transactions to Group financial indicators in 2023 is not material.

FInAnCIAL InF orMATIon
Consolidated accounts
286
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT5Note 3  Alternative performance measures
The alternative performance measures monitored by the Group 
are defined as follows:
 —  organic growth , or like -for-like growth, in revenues is 
the growth rate calculated at constant Group scope and 
exchange rates. The Group scope and exchange rates used 
are those for the reported period; 
 —  Growth at constant exchange rates  in revenues is the 
growth rate calculated at exchange rates used for the 
reported period; 
 —  operating margin  is equal to revenues less operating 
expenses. It is calculated before “Other operating income and 
expenses” which include amortization of intangible assets 
recognized in business combinations, the IFRS  2  expenses 
for share based compensation (including social security 
contributions and employer contributions) and employee 
ownership plan, and non -recurring revenues and expenses, 
notably impairment of goodwill, negative goodwill, capital 
gains or losses on disposals of consolidated companies or 
businesses, restructuring costs incurred under a detailed 
formal plan approved by the Group’s management, the 
cost of acquiring and integrating companies acquired by 
the Group, including earn -outs comprising conditions of 
presence, and the effects of curtailments, settlements and 
transfers of defined benefit pension plans;  —  normalized earnings per share  are calculated by dividing 
normalized profit or loss attributable to owners of the 
Company by the weighted average number of ordinary 
shares outstanding during the period, excluding treasury 
shares. Normalized net profit or loss is equal to profit for the 
year attributable to owners of the Company corrected for 
the impact of items recognized in “Other operating income 
and expenses” (see Note  8 – Other operating income and 
expenses), net of tax calculated using the effective tax rate; 
 —  net debt  (or net cash and cash equivalents) comprises (i) cash 
and cash equivalents, as presented in the Consolidated 
Statement of Cash Flows (consisting of short -term 
investments and cash at bank) less bank overdrafts, (ii) cash 
management assets (assets presented separately in the 
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position due to their 
characteristics), less (iii)  short- and long -term borrowings. 
Account is also taken of (iv) the impact of hedging 
instruments when these relate to borrowings, intercompany 
loans and own shares; 
 —  Organic free cash flow  calculated based on items in 
the Statement of Cash Flows is equal to cash flow from 
operations less acquisitions of property, plant, equipment 
and intangible assets (net of disposals) and repayments of 
lease liabilities and adjusted for flows relating to the net 
interest cost.
Note 4 Operating segments
Group Management analyzes and measures activity performance 
in the geographic areas where the Group is present.
The geographic analysis enables management to monitor the 
performance:
 —  of commercial development: it focuses on trends in 
major contracts and clients in Group markets across all its 
businesses. This monitoring seeks to coordinate the service 
offering of the different businesses in the countries, given 
their considerable interaction and to measure the services 
rendered.
 —  at operational and financial level: management of treasury 
and support services, the operating investment and 
financing policies and the acquisition policy are decided and 
implemented by geographic area.
Accordingly, the Group presents segment reporting for the 
geographic areas where it is located.
The Group segments are defined as geographic areas (e.g. France) 
or groups of geographic areas (Rest of Europe). Geographic 
areas are grouped together based on an analysis of the nature of contracts, the typology of customer portfolios and the uniformity 
of operating margins*.
Inter -segment transactions are carried out on an arm’s length basis.
The performance of operating segments is measured based on the 
operating margin*. This indicator enables the measurement and 
comparison of the operating performance of operating segments, 
irrespective of whether their business results from internal or 
external growth.
Costs relating to operations and incurred by Group holding 
companies on behalf of geographic areas are allocated to the 
relevant segments either directly or on the basis of an allocation 
key. Items not allocated correspond to headquarter expenses.
The operating margin* realized by the main offshore delivery 
centers (India and Poland) is reallocated to the geographic areas 
managing the contracts to enable a better understanding of the 
performance of these areas.
* Operating margin, an alternative performance measure monitored by the 
Group, is defined in Note 3 – Alternative performance measures.

FInAnCIAL InF orMATIon
Consolidated accounts
287
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI5The Group communicates segment information for the following geographic areas: North America, France, United Kingdom and Ireland, 
the Rest of Europe, Asia-Pacific and Latin America.
2023
(in millions of euros)  north 
America Franceunited 
Kingdom 
and Irelandrest of 
europeAsia ‑Pacific 
and Latin 
America  (1) hQ 
expenseselimina- 
tions Total  
Revenues         
 —  external 6,462 4,537 2,709 6,837 1,977 - - 22,522 
 —  inter -geographic area 224 494 301 665 2,736 - (4,420) – 
TOTAL REVENUES 6,686 5,031 3,010 7,502 4,713 - (4,420) 22,522 
OPERATING MARGIN (2) 1,010 571 504 800 241 (135) ‑ 2,991 
% of revenues 15.6 12.6 18.6 11.7 12.2 ‑ ‑ 13.3 
OPERATING PROFIT 874 390 431 639 147 (135) ‑ 2,346 
(1) The Asia-Pacific and Latin America area includes the following countries in particular: India, Australia, Brazil, Mexico and other Asian Pacific and Latin American countries.
(2) Operating margin, an alternative performance measure monitored by the Group, is defined in Note 3 – Alternative performance measures.
2022
(in millions of euros)  north 
America Franceunited 
Kingdom 
and Irelandrest of 
europeAsia ‑Pacific 
and Latin 
America  (1) hQ 
expenseselimina- 
tions Total  
Revenues         
 —  external 6,737 4,276 2,561 6,437 1,984 - - 21,995 
 —  inter -geographic area 246 454 281 594 2,777 - (4,352) – 
TOTAL REVENUES 6,983 4,730 2,842 7,031 4,761 - (4,352) 21,995 
OPERATING MARGIN (2) 1,051 518 462 746 210 (120) ‑ 2,867 
% of revenues 15.6 12.1 18.0 11.6 10.6 ‑ ‑ 13.0 
OPERATING PROFIT 922 407 432 628 124 (120) ‑ 2,393 
(1) The Asia-Pacific and Latin America area includes the following countries in particular: India, Australia, Brazil, Mexico and other Asian Pacific and Latin American countries.
(2) Operating margin, an alternative performance measure monitored by the Group, is defined in Note 3 – Alternative performance measures.
Note 5  Consolidated Income Statement
Income and expenses are presented in the Consolidated Income 
Statement by function. Operating expenses are broken down into 
the cost of services rendered (corresponding to costs incurred for 
the execution of client projects), selling expenses, and general and 
administrative expenses.
These three captions represent operating expenses which are 
deducted from revenues to obtain the operating margin*, one of 
the main Group business performance indicators. Certain types 
of operating expense may be reclassified in previous periods in 
accordance with the presentation adopted in the reported fiscal 
year; these reclassifications are without impact on operating 
margin, net profit nor cash flows.
Operating profit is obtained by deducting other operating income 
and expenses from the operating margin.
Other operating income and expenses include amortization 
of intangible assets recognized in business combinations, the 
IFRS 2 expenses for share based compensation (including social 
security contributions and employer contributions) and employee 
ownership plan, and non -recurring revenues and expenses, notably 
impairment of goodwill, negative goodwill, capital gains or losses 
on disposals of consolidated companies or businesses, restructuring 
costs incurred under a detailed formal plan approved by the Group’s 
management, acquisition costs, costs of integrating companies 
acquired by the Group including earn -outs comprising conditions of presence and the effects of curtailments, settlements and 
transfers of defined benefit pension plans.
Profit for the year attributable to owners of the Company is then 
obtained by taking into account the following items:
 —  net finance costs, including net interest on borrowings 
calculated using the effective interest rate, less income from 
cash, cash equivalents and cash management assets; 
 —  other financial income and expense, which primarily 
correspond to the impact of remeasuring financial 
instruments to fair value when these relate to items of a 
financial nature, disposal gains and losses and the impairment 
of investments in non -consolidated companies, net interest 
costs on defined benefit pension plans, exchange gains and 
losses on financial items, and other financial income and 
expense on miscellaneous financial assets and liabilities 
calculated using the effective interest rate, as well as the 
interest expense on lease liabilities; 
 —  current and deferred income tax expense; 
 —  share of profit of associates; 
 —  share of non -controlling interests.
* Operating margin, an alternative performance measure monitored by the 
Group, is defined in Note 3 – Alternative performance measures.

FInAnCIAL InF orMATIon
Consolidated accounts
288
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT5Note 6  Revenues
The method for recognizing revenues and costs depends on the 
nature of the services rendered:
Deliverable -based contracts
Deliverable -based contracts typically include fixed price projects, 
for example, system integration or design and development of 
customized IT systems and related processes. Contract terms 
typically range from 6 months to 2 years. Contract prices might 
be subject to incentives and penalties, based on achievement of 
specified performance targets or levels of benefits delivered to 
the customer.
For deliverable -based contracts, revenue is generally recognized 
over time, because at least one of the following conditions is met: 
(i) the Group’s performance enhances an asset that the customer 
controls as the Group performs or (ii) the Group builds an asset 
that has no alternative use (e.g. it is customer -specific) and the 
Group has an enforceable right to payment for performance to 
date in case of termination by the customer.
The Group applies the “cost -to-cost” method to measure progress 
to completion. The percentage of completion is based on costs 
incurred to date relative to the total estimate of cost at completion 
of the contract.
Estimates of total contract costs are revised when new elements 
arise. Changes in estimates of cost at completion and related 
percentage of completion are recorded in the Income Statement 
as catch -up adjustments in the period in which the elements giving 
rise to the revision are known.
The related costs on deliverable -based contracts are expensed 
as incurred.
The Group earns contractually the right to bill upon achievement 
of specified milestones or upon customer acceptance of work 
performed. The difference between cumulative billings and 
cumulative revenue recognized is reflected in the Consolidated 
Statement of Financial Position as Contract assets (revenue in excess 
of billings) or Contract liabilities (billings in excess of revenue).
Resources -based contracts
Revenue from Resources -based contracts is recognized as the 
Group earns the right to bill the customer as the amount invoiced 
corresponds directly to the value to the customer of the performance 
completed to date. Each performance obligation is satisfied over 
time as the client continuously receives and consumes the benefits 
of the services. The services are priced based on the number of hours 
spent on the contract. The amount to be billed is representative of 
the value of the service delivered to the customer and therefore, 
applying the right -to-bill practical expedient, revenue is recognized 
over time based on the hours spent.
The related costs on resources -based contracts are expensed as 
incurred.
Services -based contracts
Services -based contracts include infrastructure management, 
application management and Business Services activities. Contract 
terms typically range from 3 to 5 years. Fees are billable on a 
monthly basis, based on a fixed -price per work unit consumed, or 
based on monthly fixed fees subject to adjustment mechanisms 
for volume changes or scope changes. Contracts generally provide 
for service -level penalties.Recurring services are generally considered to be one single 
performance obligation, comprised of a series of distinct daily units 
of service satisfied over time. Contract modifications are recorded 
on a prospective basis. Revenue on services -based contracts is 
recognized as rights to bill arise, except in specific cases where 
invoicing terms do not reflect the value to the customer of services 
rendered to date relative to the value of the remaining services (for 
example, in case of significant front -loaded or backloaded fees or 
discounts). Service -level penalties or bonuses, if any, are accrued 
in full in the period when the performance targets are failed or 
achieved, as appropriate.
Upfront fees received from customers, if any, are deferred and 
recognized over the service period, even if non -refundable. Upfront 
amounts payable to customers, if in excess of the fair value of 
assets transferred from the customer, are capitalized (presented 
in Contract assets) and amortized over the contractual period, as 
a deduction to revenue.
Resale activities
As part of its operational activities, the Group may resell hardware 
equipment, software licenses, maintenance and services purchased 
from third -party suppliers. When the asset or service is distinct from 
the other services provided by the Group, the Group needs to assess 
whether it is acting as an agent or a principal in the purchase and 
resale transaction. The Group acts as a “principal” when it obtains 
control of the hardware, software or services before transferring 
them to the customer. In such case, the transaction is presented 
on a gross basis in the Income Statement (amounts charged by 
suppliers are presented in operating expenses). If the Group acts 
as an “agent”, the transaction is recorded on a net basis (amounts 
charged by suppliers are recorded as a deduction to revenue). For 
example, transactions are recorded on a net basis when the Group 
does not have the primary responsibility for the fulfillment of the 
contract and does not bear inventory and customer acceptance risk.
Royalties
Under product engineering partnership agreements granting the 
Group licenses over software, the Group receives royalties for the 
use of these licenses calculated using contractually -defined rates.
Multi -deliverable contracts
These contracts are long -term complex contracts with multiple 
phases which may include design, transition, transformation, build 
and service delivery (run).
The Group may be required to perform initial transition or 
transformation activities under certain recurring service contacts. 
Initial set -up activities, mainly transition phases, necessary to 
enable the ongoing services, are not considered to be performance 
obligations. Any amount received in connection with those activities 
are deferred and recognized in revenue over the contractual 
service period. The other activities performed during the initial 
phase, such as design, transformation and build, are treated as a 
separate performance obligation if they transfer to the customer the 
control of an asset or if the customer can benefit from those initial 
activities independently from the ongoing service. In such cases, 
the corresponding revenues are generally recognized over time.

FInAnCIAL InF orMATIon
Consolidated accounts
289
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI5When multiple Performance Obligations are identified within a 
single contract, the Group allocates the total contract price to the 
Performance Obligations based on their relative Standalone Selling 
Price (“SSP”). In the absence of directly observable prices for similar 
services sold separately to similar customers, SSPs are estimated 
based on expected costs plus a margin rate commensurate with 
the nature and risk of the service.
Variable remuneration
Estimates of incentives, penalties, and any other variable revenues 
are included in the transaction price, but only to the extent that 
it is highly probable that the subsequent resolution of the price 
contingency will not result in a significant reversal of the cumulative 
revenue previously recognized. To make such an estimate, the Group 
considers the specific facts and circumstances of the contract 
and its experience with similar contracts. Changes in estimates 
of variable consideration are recorded as cumulative catch -up 
adjustments to revenue.
Costs to obtain and fulfill contracts
Sales commissions incurred to obtain multi -year service contracts 
are capitalized and amortized over the contract period. Commissions 
are not capitalized if the amortization period is one year or less.
Costs incurred prior to the signature of an enforceable contract 
are capitalized only if they are directly attributable to the design 
or set -up phase of a specifically identified contract, if the signature 
of the contract is probable, and if the costs are expected to be 
recoverable from the contract.
Costs incurred to fulfill the contracts are expensed as incurred with 
the exception of certain initial set -up costs, such as transition and transformation costs that do not represent a separate performance 
obligation, which are capitalized if they create a resource that the 
Group will use to perform the promised service.
Reimbursements received from customers are recognized as 
revenue, as costs are incurred.
A provision for onerous contracts is recorded if all the costs necessary 
to fulfil the contract exceed the related benefits.
Presentation in the Consolidated Statement of 
Financial Position
Contract assets are presented separately from trade receivables. 
Contract assets reflect revenue recognized for which the 
corresponding rights to receive consideration are contingent 
upon something other than the passage of time, such as the 
Group’s future performance, achievement of billing milestones, 
or customer acceptance. When customer contract assets are no 
longer contingent, except for the passage of time, they convert 
into trade receivables. The majority of contract assets relate to 
deliverable -based contracts (see above).
Contract liabilities represent consideration received or receivable 
in advance of performance. Contract assets and liabilities are 
presented on a net basis for each individual contract.
Financing components
If the expected time lag between revenue recognition and client 
payments is greater than 12 months, the Group assesses if a 
financing facility has been accorded or received by the client, and 
if the impact is significant, the financial component is recorded 
separately from revenues.
In 2023, revenues grew 2.4% year -on-year at current Group scope and exchange rates. Revenues grew 4.4% at constant exchange 
rates (1), while organic growth (1) was 3.9%.
Revenue
(in millions of euros)  Change   
2022 reportedat constant 
exchange rates (1) 2023 
North America 6,737 - 4.1% -1.3% 6,462 
France 4,276 6.1% 6.1% 4,537 
United Kingdom and Ireland 2,561 5.8% 7.9% 2,709 
Rest of Europe 6,437 6.2% 7.6% 6,837 
Asia-Pacific and Latin America 1,984 -0.4% 4.6% 1,977 
TOTAL 21,995 2.4% 4.4% 22,522 
(1) Organic growth and growth at constant exchange rates, alternative performance measures monitored by the Group, are defined in Note 3 – Alternative performance 
measures.
Firm bookings taken in 2023 total €23,887 million.

FInAnCIAL InF orMATIon
Consolidated accounts
290
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT5Note 7  Operating expenses by nature
(in millions of euros) 2022 2023 
Amount % of revenues Amount  % of revenues 
Personnel expenses 14,969 68.1% 15,341 68.2% 
Travel expenses 290 1.3% 322 1.4% 
Purchases and sub -contracting expenses 3,049 13.9% 2,977 13.2% 
Rent and local taxes 196 0.9% 209 0.9% 
Charges to depreciation, amortization, impairment, 
provisions and proceeds from asset disposals 624 2.8% 682 3.0% 
OPERATING EXPENSES 19,128 87.0% 19,531 86.7% 
Breakdown of personnel expenses
(in millions of euros) Note 2022 2023 
Wages and salaries   12,312 12,627 
Payroll taxes   2,590 2,661 
Pension costs related to defined benefit pension plans and  
other post -employment benefit expenses 25 67 53 
PERSONNEL EXPENSES   14,969 15,341 
Note 8  Other operating income and expenses
(in millions of euros) 2022 2023 
Amortization of intangible assets recognized in business combinations (136) (123) 
Expenses relating to share based compensation (172) (214) 
Expenses relating to employee ownership plan (4) (67) 
Restructuring costs (82) (179) 
Integration costs for companies acquired (76) (44) 
Acquisition costs (8) (15) 
Other operating expenses (36) (49) 
Total operating expenses (514) (691) 
Other operating income 40 46 
Total operating income 40 46 
OTHER OPERATING INCOME AND EXPENSES (474) (645) 
Expenses relating to share based compensation
The expense relating to share based compensation is €214 million, 
compared with €172 million in 2022. This increase mainly results 
from the change in the share price over the period impacting the 
IFRS expense of new plans.
Expenses relating to employee ownership plan
The expense relating to employee ownership plan is €67 million, 
compared with €4 million in 2022. This increase results from the 
prospective change of the IFRS 2 expense methodology measuring 
the benefit granted to the employees under share ownership plans 
(cf. Note 12 – Equity).Restructuring costs
Fiscal year 2023 restructuring costs primarily concern workforce 
reduction measures and real estate restructurings.
Integration costs for companies acquired
Integration costs for companies acquired total €44 million, 
including €14 million in respect of the integration of Altran in 2023 
(€41 million in 2022).

FInAnCIAL InF orMATIon
Consolidated accounts
291
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI5Note 9  Net financial expense
(in millions of euros) Note 2022 2023 
Income from cash, cash equivalents and cash management assets   65 171 
Net interest on borrowings   (119) (142) 
Net finance costs at the nominal interest rate   (54) 29 
Impact of amortized cost on borrowings   (13) (12) 
Net finance costs at the effective interest rate   (67) 17 
Net interest cost on defined benefit pension plans 25 (9) (3) 
Interest on lease liabilities   (16) (29) 
Exchange (losses) gains on financial transactions   (27) (17) 
(Losses) Gains on derivative instruments   (1) (1) 
Other   (9) (9) 
Other financial income and expense   (62) (59) 
NET FINANCIAL EXPENSE   (129) (42) 
The increase in income from cash, cash equivalents and cash 
management assets over the period is mainly due to the increase 
in yield on cash invested in the Group’s various geographies, in a 
context of rising interest rates.
Net interest on borrowings €142 million and the impact of 
amortized cost on borrowings €12 million total €154 million and 
mainly comprise:
 —  the coupon on the 2015 bond issue of 13  million, with a 
negligible amortized cost accounting impact;  —  coupons on the 2018 bond issues of 15  million, plus an 
amortized cost accounting impact of 6 million; 
 —  coupons on the 2020 bond issues of 75  million, plus an 
amortized cost accounting impact of 6 million.
Exchange losses on financial transactions and losses on derivative 
instruments primarily concern inter -company loans denominated 
in foreign currencies and the impacts of the related hedging 
arrangements.
Note 10  Income tax expense
The income tax expense is the sum of the current tax expense and 
the deferred tax expense. It is recognized in the Income Statement, 
except where it relates to a business combination or items recognized 
in equity or in income and expense recognized in equity.
Current income taxes
The current income tax expense is the estimated amount of tax 
payable (or receivable) in respect of the taxable profit (or loss) for 
a period and any adjustment to the current tax amount in respect of prior periods. The tax payable (or receivable) is calculated using 
tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the 
reporting date.
Deferred taxes
Deferred taxes are recorded to take account of temporary differences 
between the carrying amounts of certain assets and liabilities and 
their tax basis. See Note 17 – Deferred taxes.
Current and deferred income taxes
The income tax expense for fiscal year 2023 breaks down as follows:
(in millions of euros)  2022 2023  
Current income taxes (621) (526) 
Deferred taxes (89) (100) 
INCOME TAX (EXPENSE) INCOME (710) (626) 

FInAnCIAL InF orMATIon
Consolidated accounts
292
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT5Effective tax rate
The difference between the French standard rate of income tax and the effective Group tax rate can be analyzed as follows:
 
(in millions of euros) 2022 2023 
Amount % Amount  % 
Profit before tax 2,264  2,304  
Standard tax rate in France (%) 2583  2583  
Tax expense at the standard rate (585) 2583 (595) 2583 
Difference in tax rates between countries (20) 0.9 8 (0.3) 
Impact of:     
Deferred tax assets not recognized on temporary 
differences and tax loss carry -forwards arising in  
the period (8) 0.4 (31) 1.3 
Net recognition of deferred tax assets on temporary 
differences and tax loss carry -forwards arising prior to 
January 1 3 (0.1) 4 (0.2) 
Utilization of previously unrecognized tax loss 
carry -forwards 17 (0.9) 10 (0.4) 
Prior year adjustments (13) 0.6 9 (0.4) 
Taxes not based on taxable profit (40) 1.8 (33) 1.4 
Permanent differences and other items (64) 2.8 2 – 
INCOME TAX EXPENSE AND EFFECTIVE TAX RATE (710) 313 (626) 272 
The 2023 income tax expense is €626 million. Compared with a 
profit before tax of €2,304 million, the effective tax rate (ETR) is 
27.2% lower than in 2022.
The effective tax rate (ETR) is down year -on-year, due notably to 
a more favorable geographic mix, with, in particular, a reduction 
in the Corporate Value-Added Contribution ( Cotisation sur la 
Valeur Ajoutée des Entreprises , CVAE) in France, the option to the 
Concessional Tax Regime in India, combined with a decrease in the 
tax expense of the impact of the 2017 US tax reform.“Taxes not based on taxable profit” includes the Corporate Value-
Added Contribution ( Cotisation sur la Valeur Ajoutée des Entreprises , 
CVAE) in France, certain State taxes in the United States and the 
regional tax on productive activities (IRAP) in Italy.
The effective income tax rate used to calculate normalized earnings 
per share (see Note 11 – Earnings per share) at December 31, 2023 
is 27.2%.
Note 11  Earnings per share
Earnings per share, diluted earnings per share and normalized 
earnings per share are measured as follows:
 —  basic earnings per share  are calculated by dividing profit 
or loss attributable to owners of the Company by the 
weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding 
during the period, excluding treasury shares. The weighted 
average number of ordinary shares outstanding is calculated 
based on the number of ordinary shares outstanding at the 
beginning of the period, after deduction of treasury shares, 
adjusted on a time -apportioned basis for shares bought back 
or issued during the period; 
 —  diluted earnings per share  are calculated by dividing 
profit or loss attributable to owners of the Company by the 
weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year as used to calculate basic earnings per share, 
both items being adjusted on a time -apportioned basis for 
the effects of all potentially dilutive financial instruments 
corresponding to (i)  performance shares and (ii)  free share 
grants until fully vested; 
 —  normalized earnings per share  are calculated by dividing  
normalized profit or loss attributable to owners of the 
Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares 
outstanding, excluding treasury shares. Normalized net 
profit or loss is equal to profit or loss for the year attributable 
to owners of the Company corrected for the impact of items 
recognized in “Other operating income and expenses”,  
net of tax calculated using the effective tax rate (see  
Note  8 – Other operating income and expenses and  
Note 10 – Income tax expense).
Basic earnings per share
 2022 2023 
Profit for the year attributable to owners of the Company (in millions of euros)  1,547 1,663 
Weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding 170,251,066 171,350,138 
BASIC EARNINGS PER SHARE (in euros)  909 970 

FInAnCIAL InF orMATIon
Consolidated accounts
293
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI5Diluted earnings per share
Diluted earnings per share are calculated by assuming conversion 
into ordinary shares of all dilutive instruments outstanding during 
the year.
In 2023, instruments considered dilutive for the purpose of 
calculating diluted earnings per share include:
 —  shares delivered in October 2023 to non-French employees 
under the performance share plan approved by the Board 
of Directors on October  2, 2019 representing a weighted 
average of 670,155 shares; 
 —  shares delivered in October  2023 to french employees and 
shares available for grant to non-French employees under the 
performance share plan approved by the Board of Directors 
on October  7, 2020, representing a weighted average of 
1,512,694 shares; 
 —  shares available for grant under the performance share plan 
approved by the Board of Directors on October  6, 2021, 
representing a weighted average of 1,643,331  shares and 
whose related performance conditions will be definitely 
assessed in October 2024;  —  shares available for grant under the performance share plan 
approved by the Board of Directors on December  1, 2021, 
representing a weighted average of 9,681 shares and whose 
related presence conditions will be definitely assessed in 
December 2024; 
 —  shares available for grant under the performance share plan 
approved by the Board of Directors on October  3, 2022, 
representing a weighted average of 1,913,097  shares and 
whose related performance conditions will be definitely 
assessed in October 2025; 
 —  shares available for grant under the performance share plan 
approved by the Board of Directors on October  3, 2022, 
representing a weighted average of 11,865 shares and whose 
related presence conditions will be definitely assessed in 
October 2025; 
 —  shares available for grand under the performance share plan 
approved by the Board of Directors on November  6, 2023, 
representing a weighted average of 285,385  shares and 
whose related performance conditions will be definitely 
assessed in November 2026.
(in millions of euros) 2022 2023 
Profit for the year attributable to owners of the Company 1,547 1,663 
Weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding 170,251,066 171,350,138 
Adjusted for:   
Performance shares and free shares available for exercise 5,768,670 6,046,208 
Weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding (diluted) 176,019,736 177,396,346 
DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE (in euros)  879 937 
Normalized earnings per share
(in millions of euros) 2022 2023 
Profit for the year attributable to owners of the Company 1,547 1,663 
Other operating income and expenses, net of tax calculated at the effective tax rate (1) 340 469 
Normalized profit for the year attributable to owners of the Company 1,887 2,132 
Weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding 170,251,066 171,350,138 
NORMALIZED EARNINGS PER SHARE (in euros)  1109 1244 
(1) cf. Note 10 – Income tax expense.
In fiscal year 2022, the Group recognized an exceptional income 
tax expense of €73 million reducing normalized earnings per share by €0.43. Excluding these amounts, 2022 normalized earnings per 
share would have been €11.52.

FInAnCIAL InF orMATIon
Consolidated accounts
294
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT5Note 12  Equity
Incentive instruments and employee share ownership
a)  Instruments granted to employees
shares subject to performance and presence conditions
Performance shares are granted to a certain number of Group 
employees, subject to performance (internal and external) and 
presence conditions. Share grants become definitive after a vesting 
period of at least three years since July 2016 or four years until 
the 2022 plan, depending on the tax residence of the beneficiary.
The shares are measured at fair value, corresponding to the value 
of the benefit granted to the employee at the grant date.
The fair value of shares subject to external performance conditions 
is calculated using the “Monte Carlo” model, which incorporates 
assumptions concerning the share price at the grant date, implicit 
share price volatility, the risk -free interest rate, the expected 
dividend yield and market performance conditions.
The fair value of shares subject to internal performance and/or 
presence conditions is calculated using a model in compliance with 
IFRS 2, which incorporates assumptions concerning the share price 
at the grant date, share transfer restrictions, the risk -free interest 
rate and the expected dividend yield.
The expense recognized also takes into account staff attrition 
rates for eligible employee categories, which are reviewed each 
year and internal performance conditions (non -market conditions).
This amount is recognized in “Other operating income and expenses” 
in the Income Statement on a straight -line basis over the vesting 
period, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
b)  Instruments proposed to employees
employee savings plan
Since 2009, the Group has set up employee share ownership plans 
offering employees the possibility to subscribe for Capgemini 
shares at a discounted preferential rate in return for shares being 
non -transferable for a period of five years.Following the lapse of the French National Accounting Council 
statements which proposed a method of valuing the non -transferable 
feature of corporate savings plans (CNC statements of  
December 21, 2004 and February 7, 2007), the Group was required 
to prospectively amend its IFRS 2 expense valuation methodology 
measuring the benefit granted to employees under these plans.
Accordingly, under this new methodology, the IFRS 2 expense 
for the leveraged employee share ownership plan set up in 2023 
corresponds to the difference between the Reference Price of the 
shares and their subscription price and therefore no longer takes 
into account the impact of their non -transferability.
In certain countries where implementation requires a Stock 
Appreciation Rights (SAR) mechanism, the IFRS 2 expense is 
calculated in the same way.
Treasury shares
Capgemini SE shares held by the Company or by any consolidated 
companies are shown as a deduction from consolidated equity, at 
cost. Any proceeds from sales of treasury shares are taken directly 
to equity, net of the tax effect, such that the gain or loss on the sale, 
net of tax, does not impact the Income Statement for the period.
derivative instruments on own shares
When derivative instruments on own shares satisfy IAS 32 classification 
criteria for recognition in equity, they are initially recognized in equity 
in the amount of the consideration received or paid. Subsequent 
changes in fair value are not recognized in the financial statements, 
other than the related tax effect.
Where these instruments do not satisfy the aforementioned criteria, 
the derivative instruments on own shares are recognized in assets 
or liabilities at fair value. Changes in fair value are recognized in 
profit or loss. The fair value remeasurement of these instruments 
at the year -end is recognized based on external valuations.
Incentive instruments and employee share ownership
A)  Performance share plans
Since 2008, the Group no longer grants stock options plans.
The Shareholders’ Meetings of May 23, 2019, May 20, 2020, 
May 20, 2021, May 19, 2022 and then May 16, 2023 authorized the 
Board of Directors to grant shares to a certain number of Group employees, on one or several occasions and within a maximum 
period of 18 months, subject to performance and/or presence 
conditions. On October 2, 2019, October 7, 2020, October 6, 2021, 
December 1, 2021, October 3, 2022 and November 6, 2023, the 
Board of Directors approved the terms and conditions and the 
list of beneficiaries of these plans.
The main features of plans active in 2023 are set out in the tables 
below:

FInAnCIAL InF orMATIon
Consolidated accounts
295
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI5 October 2019 Plan
Maximum number of shares that may be granted 1,672,937 shares
% of share capital at the date of the Board of Directors’ decision 1%
Total number of shares granted 1,523,015  (2)
Date of Board of Directors’ decision October 2, 2019
Performance assessment period Three years for the two 
performance conditions
Vesting period 3 years as from the grant date 
(France) or 4 years as from the 
grant date (other countries)
Mandatory lock -in period effective as from the vesting date (France only) 2 years
Main market conditions at the grant date  
Volatility 23.14%
Risk‑free interest rate ‑0.478%/ ‑0.458%
Expected dividend rate 1.60%
Other conditions  
Performance conditions Yes (see below)
Employee presence within the Group at the vesting date Yes
Pricing model used to calculate the fair value of shares Monte Carlo for performance shares 
with external (market) conditions
Range of fair values (in euros)   
Free shares (per share and in euros) 99.57
Performance shares (per share and in euros) 52.81 – 99.57
Of which corporate officers 74.12
Number of shares at December 31, 2022  
that may vest under the plan in respect of shares previously granted,  
subject to conditions (performance and/or presence) 890,962
of which corporate officers  
Change during the period  
Number of shares subject to performance and/or  
presence conditions granted during the year  
of which corporate officers ‑
Number of shares forfeited or canceled during the year 49,400
Number of shares vested during the year 841,562 (3)
Number of shares at December 31, 2023  
that may vest under the plan in respect of shares previously granted,  
subject to conditions (performance and/or presence) -
Weighted average number of shares 670,155
Share price at the grant date (in euros)  107.35

FInAnCIAL InF orMATIon
Consolidated accounts
296
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT5 October 2020 Plan
Maximum number of shares that may be granted 2,033,396 shares
% of share capital at the date of the Board of Directors’ decision 1.2%
Total number of shares granted 1,900,000  (4)
Date of Board of Directors’ decision October 7, 2020
Performance assessment period Three years for the two 
performance conditions
Vesting period 3 years as from the grant date 
(France) or 4 years as from the 
grant date (other countries)
Mandatory lock -in period effective as from the vesting date (France only) 1 year
Main market conditions at the grant date  
Volatility 29.61%
Risk‑free interest rate ‑0.499%/ ‑0.4615%
Expected dividend rate 1.60%
Other conditions  
Performance conditions Yes (see below)
Employee presence within the Group at the vesting date Yes
Pricing model used to calculate the fair value of shares Monte Carlo for performance shares 
with external (market) conditions
Range of fair values (in euros)   
Free shares (per share and in euros) 97.54 – 99.4
Performance shares (per share and in euros) 61.29 – 99.4
of which corporate officers 79.2
Number of shares at December 31, 2022  
that may vest under the plan in respect of shares previously granted,  
subject to conditions (performance and/or presence) 1,677,990
of which corporate officers 25,000  (1) 
Change during the period  
Number of shares subject to performance and/or  
presence conditions granted during the year -
of which corporate officers ‑
Number of shares forfeited or canceled during the year 84,250
Number of shares vested during the year 519,700  (5) 
Number of shares at December 31, 2023  
that may vest under the plan in respect of shares previously granted,  
subject to conditions (performance and/or presence) 1,074,040  (6) 
Weighted average number of shares 1,512,694
Share price at the grant date (in euros)  107.55

FInAnCIAL InF orMATIon
Consolidated accounts
297
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI5 2021 Plan
Maximum number of shares that may be granted 2,025,418
% of share capital at the date of the Board of Directors’ decision 1.2%
Total number of shares granted 1,834,500 (7) 14,325  (9)
Date of Board of Directors’ decision October 6, 2021 December 1, 2021
Performance assessment period Three years for the two 
performance conditions Presence conditions only
Vesting period 3 years as from the grant date 
(France) or 4 years as from the 
grant date (other countries)3 years as from the grant date 
(other countries)
Mandatory lock -in period effective as  
from the vesting date (France only) 1 year -
Main market conditions at the grant date  
Volatility 30.967% 30.967%
Risk‑free interest rate ‑0.4246%/ ‑0.2605% ‑0.4246%/ ‑0.2605%
Expected dividend rate 1.60% 1.60%
Other conditions  
Performance conditions Yes (see below) No
Employee presence within the Group at the vesting date Yes Yes
Pricing model used to calculate the fair value of shares Monte Carlo for performance shares 
with external (market) conditions -
Range of fair values (in euros)  
Free shares (per share and in euros) 161.73 – 166.68 200.82
Performance shares (per share and in euros) 99.41 – 166.68 ‑
of which corporate officers 129.68 ‑
Number of shares at December 31, 2022  
that may vest under the plan in respect of shares 
previously granted, subject to conditions  
(performance and/or presence) 1,702,500 10,995
of which corporate officers 18,500  (1) ‑
Change during the period  
Number of shares subject to performance and/or 
presence conditions granted during the year - -
of which corporate officers ‑ ‑
Number of shares forfeited or canceled during the year 107,920 2,440
Number of shares vested during the year 1,965 ‑
Number of shares at December 31, 2023  
that may vest under the plan in respect of  
shares previously granted, subject to conditions  
(performance and/or presence) 1,592,615 (8) 8,555
Weighted average number of shares 1,643,331 9,681
Share price at the grant date (in euros)  175.65 207.30

FInAnCIAL InF orMATIon
Consolidated accounts
298
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT5 2022 Plan
Maximum number of shares that may be granted 2,068,697
% of share capital at the date of the Board of Directors’ decision 1.2%
Total number of shares granted 1,982,000 (10) 13,750  (9)
Date of Board of Directors’ decision October 3, 2022 October 3, 2022
Performance assessment period Three years for the two 
performance conditions Presence conditions only
Vesting period 3 years as from the grant date 
(France) or 4 years as from the 
grant date (other countries)3 years as from the grant date
Mandatory lock -in period effective as  
from the vesting date (France only) 1 year -
Main market conditions at the grant date  
Volatility 31.244% 31.244%
Risk‑free interest rate 2.8360%/2.9520% 2.8360%/2.9520%
Expected dividend rate 1.60% 1.60%
Other conditions  
Performance conditions Yes (see below) No
Employee presence within the Group at the vesting date Yes Yes
Pricing model used to calculate the fair value of shares Monte Carlo for performance shares 
with external (market) conditions -
Range of fair values (in euros)   
Free shares (per share and in euros) 143.27 – 151.48 154.75
Performance shares (per share and in euros) 99.83 – 151.48 ‑
of which corporate officers 113.63 ‑
Number of shares at December 31, 2022  
that may vest under the plan in respect of  
shares previously granted, subject to conditions 
(performance and/or presence) 1,965,470 13,750
of which corporate officers 21,000  (1) ‑
Change during the period  
Number of shares subject to performance and/or 
presence conditions granted during the year - -
of which corporate officers ‑ ‑
Number of shares forfeited or canceled during the year 97,265 3,500
Number of shares vested during the year 660 ‑
Number of shares at December 31, 2023  
that may vest under the plan in respect of  
shares previously granted, subject to conditions 
(performance and/or presence) 1,867,545  (11) 10,250
Weighted average number of shares 1,913,097 11,865
Share price at the grant date (in euros)  163.15 163.15

FInAnCIAL InF orMATIon
Consolidated accounts
299
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI5 2023 Plan
Maximum number of shares that may be granted 2,082,985
% of share capital at the date of the Board of Directors’ decision 1.2%
Total number of shares granted 1,872,500 (12)
Date of Board of Directors’ decision November 6, 2023
Performance assessment period Three years for the two 
performance conditions
Vesting period 3 years as from the grant date 
(France and other countries)
Mandatory lock -in period effective as from the vesting date (France only) 1 year
Main market conditions at the grant date  
Volatility 28.360%
Risk‑free interest rate 3.7168%/3.0600%
Expected dividend rate 2.0%
Other conditions  
Performance conditions Yes (see below)
Employee presence within the Group at the vesting date Yes
Pricing model used to calculate the fair value of shares Monte Carlo for performance shares 
with external (market) conditions
Range of fair values (in euros)   
Free shares (per share and in euros) 154.53 – 158.55
Performance shares (per share and in euros) 100.09 – 102.46
of which corporate officers 122.99
Number of shares at December 31, 2022  
that may vest under the plan in respect of shares previously granted,  
subject to conditions (performance and/or presence) -
of which corporate officers  
Change during the period  
Number of shares subject to performance and/or  
presence conditions granted during the year 1,872,500
of which corporate officers 19,500  (1) 
Number of shares forfeited or canceled during the year 5,000
Number of shares vested during the year -
Number of shares at December 31, 2023  
that may vest under the plan in respect of shares previously granted,  
subject to conditions (performance and/or presence) 1,867,500  (13) 
Weighted average number of shares 285,385
Share price at the grant date (in euros)  168.75
(1) Grant subject to performance conditions only.
(2) Grant subject to performance conditions only, except for 8,852 shares subject to presence conditions only.
(3) In respect of the “non-French” plan only.
(4) Grant subject to performance conditions only, except for 39,800 shares subject to presence conditions only.
(5) In respect of the French plan only (excluding 2,000 shares for death).
(6) In respect of the “non-French” plan only.
(7) Grant subject to performance conditions only, except for 3,600 shares subject to presence conditions only.
(8) Of which 461,530 shares in respect of the French plan and 1,131,085 shares in respect of the “non-French” plan.
(9) Grant subject to presence conditions only.
(10) Grant subject to performance conditions only, except for 3,100 shares subject to presence conditions only.
(11) Of which 501,065 shares in respect of the French plan and 1,366,480 shares in respect of the“non-French” plan.
(12) Grant subject to performance conditions only, except for 45,960 shares subject to presence conditions only.
(13) Of which 481,430 shares in respect of the French plan and 1,386,070 shares in respect of the “non-French” plan.

FInAnCIAL InF orMATIon
Consolidated accounts
300
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT5a)  shares vested in 2023 under the 2019 and 2020 plans
The assessment of performance conditions under the October 2019 
plan concluded that the internal performance condition and the 
CSR performance conditions were 100% attained and the external 
performance condition was 100% attained, given the performance of 
the Capgemini SE share which exceeded the comparison basket and 
the 110% threshold enabling the maximum allocation. Satisfaction 
of the presence condition at the end of September 2023 led to 
the vesting of 839,512 shares in October 2023 to non-French 
beneficiaries (additional 2,050 shares were delivered during the 
year to beneficiaries who died). A total of 1,249,112 shares have 
vested under the October 2019 plan, representing 82.02% of 
shares initially granted.
The assessment of performance conditions under the October 2020 
plan concluded that the internal performance condition and the 
CSR performance conditions were 100% attained and the external 
performance condition was 100% attained, given the performance 
of the Capgemini SE share, which exceeded the comparison 
basket and the 110% threshold enabling the maximum allocation. 
Satisfaction of the presence condition at the end of September 2023 
led to the vesting of 516,700 shares in October 2023 to French 
beneficiaries. In addition, 3,000 shares were delivered during the 
year to beneficiaries who died during the vesting period, for a total 
of shares allocated in 2023 of 519,700 shares.
b)  Performance conditions of the plans
The following internal and external performance conditions apply:
external performance condition
No shares are granted if the performance of the Capgemini SE 
share during the period in question is less than the performance 
of the basket of securities over the same period.
The number of shares ultimately granted:
 —  is equal to 50% of the number of shares initially allocated if 
the performance of the Capgemini SE share is at least equal 
to 100% of the basket;
 —  is equal to 100% of the number of shares initially allocated if 
the relative performance of the Capgemini SE share is higher 
than or equal to 110% of the basket;
 —  varies on a straight -line basis between 50% and 100% of the 
initial allocation, based on a pre -defined schedule, where the 
performance of the Capgemini  SE share is between 100% 
and 110% of the basket.
Moreover, in 2019, an outperformance condition was added 
applicable to all beneficiaries except corporate officers, until 
the 2022 plan, such that if the relative performance of the share 
reaches or exceeds 120% of the basket, the allocation may amount 
to 110% of the external performance portion (but the final grant 
may not exceed 100% of the initial grant).
(1) Organic free cash flow, an alternative performance measure monitored by the Group, is defined in Note 3 – Alternative performance measures and Note 23 – Cash flows.The basket is unchanged since 2017 and comprises the following 
companies: Accenture/Indra/Atos/Tieto/CGI Group/Infosys/Sopra 
Steria/Cognizant and two indices, the CAC 40 index and the Euro 
Stoxx 600 Technology index. Alten was added to the basket in 2023.
The fair value of shares subject to external performance conditions 
is adjusted for a discount calculated in accordance with the Monte 
Carlo model, together with a discount for non -transferability for 
the shares granted in France.
Internal performance condition
The internal performance condition is based on the generation 
of organic free cash flow (1) (OFCF) over a three year period  
encompassing fiscal years 2019 to 2021 for the 2019 plan, fiscal 
years 2020 to 2022 for the 2020 plan, fiscal years 2021 to 2023 for 
the 2021 plan, fiscal years 2022 to 2024 for the 2022 plan and fiscal 
year 2023 to 2025 for the 2023 plan. Accordingly:
 —  no shares will be granted in respect of the internal 
performance condition if the cumulative increase in 
organic free cash flow over the reference period is less than 
€3,100 million for the 2019 plan, €3,400 million for the 2020 
plan, €3,900 million for the 2021 plan, €5,300 million for the 
2022 plan and €5,400 million for the 2023 plan; 
 —  100% of the initial internal allocation will be granted if 
organic free cash flow is equal to or exceeds €3,400 million 
for the 2019 plan, €3,700  million for the 2020 plan, 
€4,200  million for the 2021 plan, €5,700  million for the 
2022 plan for beneficiaries other than corporate officers 
and €6,100 for corporate officers and €5,800 million for the 
2023 plan. The trigger threshold for the application of the 
outperformance bonus is €3,700  million for the 2019 plan, 
€3,900 million for the 2020 plan, €4,500 million for the 2021 
plan, €6,100 million for the 2022 plan and €6,200 million for 
the 2023 plan (but the final grant may not exceed 100% of 
the initial grant for these plans).
The fair value of shares subject to internal performance conditions 
is calculated assuming 100% realization and will be adjusted where 
necessary in line with effective realization of this condition. A 
discount for non -transferability is also applied for the shares 
granted to French beneficiaries.
Inclusion of a new C sr performance condition since 2018
The Board of Directors’ meeting of March 13, 2018 wished to align 
the performance conditions with the Group’s strategic priorities 
by proposing the inclusion of a performance condition based on 
diversity and sustainable development objectives reflecting the 
Group’s corporate, social and environmental responsibility strategy. 
This provision was retained in 2023 and in view of the inclusion of 
an outperformance condition, the following table summarizes the 
applicable performance conditions, under the 2023 plan, for each 
of the three conditions:

FInAnCIAL InF orMATIon
Consolidated accounts
301
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI5Summary of performance conditions applicable to beneficiaries of the 2023 plan
Performance conditionsWeighting 
appliedPercentage of the grant determined by  
each performance condition  (1) 
Market condition: 
Performance of the Capgemini share over   
a three -year period40%  —  0% if Capgemini share performance < 100% of  
the average performance of the basket
 —  50% if equal to 100%
 —  100% if equal to 110%
 —  110% if at least equal to 120% of the average  
performance of the basket
Financial condition: 
Organic free cash flow (2) for the three -year cumulative 
period from January 1, 2023 to December 31, 202540%  —  0% if organic free cash flow generated (2)  
over the reference period < €5,400 million
 —  50% if equal to €5,400 million
 —  100% if at least equal to €5,800 million
 —  110% if at least equal to €6,200 million
Csr condition comprising two objectives:   
Diversity: Proportion of women as executive leaders 
at the end of 202510%  —  0% if the % of women in the Executive Leaders  
population is < 28.5%
 —  50% if equal to 28.5%
 —  100% if equal to 30%
 —  110% if at least equal to 31.5%
Carbon footprint reduction in 2025  
compared with 201910%  —  0% if the reduction in GHG emissions in 2025  
compared with the reference period < 85%
 —  50% if equal to 85%
 —  100% if equal to 100%
(1) For each performance condition: calculation of the number of shares that will ultimately vest between the different levels of performance on a straight -line basis, it being 
understood that the total percentage of shares that will ultimately vest after determination of all performance conditions, may under no circumstances exceed 100% of 
the Initial Grant.
(2) Organic free cash flow, alternative performance measure monitored by the Group, is defined in Note 3 – Alternative performance measures.
B)  International employee share ownership plans – ESOP
Throughout the years, the Group has set up employee share ownership plan (ESOP) for which the characteristics are listed below:
 eso P 2017 eso P 2018 eso P 2019 eso P 2020 eso P 2021 eso P 2022 eso P 2023
Number of new  
shares issued 3,600,000 2,500,000 2,750,000 3,000,000 3,606,687 3,500,000 3,200,000
Date of the capital 
increaseDecember 18, 
2017December 18, 
2018December 18, 
2019December 17, 
2020December 16, 
2021December 15, 
2022December 19, 
2023
Amount of the  
capital increase net  
of issue of costs   
(in millions of euros)  320 230 253 278 588 507 465
Total costs of the plan 
(in millions of euros)  (1)  2.2 1.3 1.6 1.8 4.2 3.5 67
Expiry date of the plan December 17, 
2022December 18, 
2023December 18, 
2024December 17, 
2025December 16, 
2026December 15, 
2027December 19, 
2028
(1) Until December 31st, 2022, the costs of employee share ownership is attributable to the Stock Appreciation Rights (SAR) mechanism for employees in countries where 
the set -up of an Employee Savings Mutual Fund (fonds commun de placement entreprise, FCPE ) was not possible or relevant. In 2023, following a prospective change of the 
IFRS 2 expense methodology measuring the benefit granted to the employees under share ownership plans, the IFRS 2 expense for the the leveraged ESOP 2023 plan does 
not take any longer into account the impact of the non -transferability of the shares.

FInAnCIAL InF orMATIon
Consolidated accounts
302
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT5Impact of incentive instruments and employee share ownership plans
The following table presents the expense recognized in “Other operating income and expenses” (including payroll taxes and employer 
contributions) for incentive instruments and employee share ownership plans and the residual amount to be amortized in future periods:
(1) Net debt, an alternative performance measure monitored by the Group, is defined in Note 22 – Net debt/net cash and cash equivalents.(in millions of euros) Note 2022 2023 
expense of  
the periodresidual amount 
to be amortized  
in future periods Expense of  
the period Residual amount 
to be amortized 
in future periods 
EXPENSE ON INCENTIVE 
INSTRUMENTS AND EMPLOYEE 
SHARE OWNERSHIP PLANS 8 176 492 281 533 
Treasury shares and management of share capital 
and market risks
The Group does not hold any shares for financial investment 
purposes and does not have any interests in listed companies.
At December 31, 2023, treasury shares were deducted from 
consolidated equity in the amount of €237 million. These consist 
of (i) 1,258,016 shares purchased under the share buyback 
program and (ii) 62,149 shares held under the liquidity agreement  
(for which the cash and UCITS balances are around €27 million at 
December 31, 2023) and the contractual holding system for key 
employees of American and British activities.
In view of the small number of treasury shares held, the Group 
is not therefore exposed to significant equity risk. Finally, as the 
value of treasury shares is deducted from equity, changes in the 
share price do not impact the Consolidated Income Statement.
The Group’s capital management strategy is designed to maintain a 
strong capital base in view of supporting the continued development 
of its business activities and delivering a return to shareholders, 
while adopting a prudent approach to debt. At December 31, 2023,  the Group had net debt  (1) of €2,047 million (compared with  
€2,566 million at December 31, 2022). In order to best manage the 
structure of its capital, the Group can notably issue new shares, 
buy back its own shares, adjust the dividend paid to shareholders 
or enter into derivative instruments on its own shares.
Currency risk and translation gains and losses on the 
accounts of subsidiaries with a functional currency 
other than the euro
Regarding risks arising on the translation of the foreign currency 
accounts of consolidated subsidiaries, the Group’s consolidated 
financial statements are particularly impacted by the depreciation 
of the US dollar and the Indian Rupee closing exchange rate at 
December 31, 2023, generating a negative impact on foreign 
exchange translation reserves at December 31, 2023.
The Group does not hedge risks arising on the translation of the 
foreign currency accounts of consolidated subsidiaries whose 
functional currency is not the euro. The main exchange rates used 
for the preparation of the financial statements are presented in 
Note 2 – Consolidation principles and Group structure.
Note 13  Goodwill and intangible assets
Goodwill
Goodwill is equal to the excess of the acquisition price (plus, 
where applicable, non -controlling interests) over the net amount 
recognized in respect of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities 
assumed. Where an acquisition confers control with remaining 
non -controlling interests (acquisition of less than 100%), the Group 
elects either to recognize goodwill on the full amount of revalued 
net assets, including the share attributable to non -controlling 
interests (full goodwill method) or on the share in revalued net 
assets effectively acquired only (partial goodwill method). This 
choice is made for each individual transaction.
Goodwill balances are allocated to the different cash -generating 
units (as defined in Note 16 – Cash -generating units and asset 
impairment tests) based on the value in use contributed to each unit.
When a business combination with non -controlling interests provides 
for the grant of a put option to these non -controlling interests, an 
operating liability is recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position in the amount of the estimated exercise price 
of the put option granted to non -controlling interests, through a 
reduction in equity. Subsequent changes in this put option resulting 
from any changes in estimates or the unwinding of the discount 
are also recognized through equity. Any additional acquisitions 
of non -controlling interests are considered a transaction with 
shareholders and, as such, identifiable assets are not remeasured 
and no additional goodwill is recognized.
When the cost of a business combination is less than the fair 
value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, the negative 
goodwill is recognized immediately in the Income Statement in 
“Other operating income and expenses”.
Acquisition -related costs are expensed in the Income Statement 
in “Other operating income and expenses” in the year incurred.
Goodwill is not amortized but tested for impairment at least annually, 
or more frequently when events or changes in circumstances 
indicate that it may be impaired.

FInAnCIAL InF orMATIon
Consolidated accounts
303
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI5Customer relationships
On certain business combinations, where the nature of the 
customer portfolio held by the acquired entity and the nature 
of the business performed should enable the acquired entity to 
continue commercial relations with its customers as a result of 
efforts to build customer loyalty, customer relationships are valued 
in intangible assets and amortized over the estimated term of 
contracts held in the portfolio at the acquisition date.
Licenses and software
Licenses and software include:
 —  software and user rights acquired on an unrestricted 
ownership basis; —  software and solutions developed as Software as a Service 
(SaaS); 
 —  software and solutions developed internally.
Capitalized costs, where applicable, relate directly to production 
and have a positive, lasting and quantifiable effect on future results.
Licenses and software are amortized over 3 to 7 years.
Some licenses acquired through product engineering partnerships 
were valued by discounting expected future operating cash flow 
projections and are amortized on a straight -line basis over periods 
not exceeding 10 years.
(in millions of euros) GoodwillCustomer 
relationshipsLicenses and 
softwareother 
intangible 
assets Total 
GROSS      
At January 1, 2022 10,712 1,263 521 327 12,823 
Translation adjustments 290 44 1 (3) 332 
Acquisitions/Increase - - 31 2 33 
Internal developments - - - 28 28 
Disposals/Decrease - (4) (66) (7) (77) 
Business combinations 172 29 - - 201 
Other movements - - 34 (6) 28 
At December 31, 2022 11,174 1,332 521 341 13,368 
Translation adjustments (186) (24) (2) (4) (216) 
Acquisitions/Increase - - 64 16 80 
Internal developments - - - 13 13 
Disposals/Decrease - - (34) (48) (82) 
Business combinations 313 12 - - 325 
Other movements (3) (72) 15 (1) (61) 
AT DECEMBER 31, 2023 11,298 1,248 564 317 13,427 
ACCUMULATED AMORTIZATION AND IMPAIRMENT     
At January 1, 2022 79 537 396 177 1,189 
Translation adjustments 4 20 1 - 25 
Charges and provisions 1 128 49 24 202 
Reversals - (4) (66) (3) (73) 
Business combinations - - - - - 
Other movements - - 34 (5) 29 
At December 31, 2022 84 681 414 193 1,372 
Translation adjustments 1 (15) (2) - (16) 
Charges and provisions - 121 35 40 196 
Reversals - - (33) (47) (80) 
Business combinations - - - - - 
Other movements - (72) 17 (1) (56) 
AT DECEMBER 31, 2023 85 715 431 185 1,416 
NET      
At December 31, 2022 11,090 651 107 148 11,996 
AT DECEMBER 31, 2023 11,213 533 133 132 12,011 

FInAnCIAL InF orMATIon
Consolidated accounts
304
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT5The amounts recorded in “Business combinations” for Goodwill and Customer relationships primarily concern acquisitions of the relevant 
period (see Note 2 – Consolidation principles and Group structure).
Intangible assets by geographic area
(in millions of euros)  At December 31, 2022 At December 31, 2023 
net carrying 
amountAcquisitions 
during the periodNet carrying 
amount Acquisitions 
during the period 
North America 425 28 313 10 
France 161 22 195 65 
United Kingdom and Ireland 64 2 65 5 
Rest of Europe 149 4 127 7 
Asia-Pacific and Latin America 107 5 98 6 
INTANGIBLE ASSETS 906 61 798 93 
Note 14  Property, plant and equipment (PP&E)
Property, plant and equipment
The carrying amount of property, plant and equipment is recorded 
in assets in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position and 
corresponds to the historical cost of these items, less accumulated 
depreciation and any impairment. No items of property, plant and 
equipment have been revalued. Buildings owned by the Group are 
measured based on the components approach.
Subsequent expenditure increasing the future economic benefits 
associated with assets (costs of replacing and/or bringing assets 
into compliance) is capitalized and depreciated over the remaining 
useful lives of the relevant assets. Ongoing maintenance costs are 
expensed as incurred.
Depreciation is calculated on a straight -line basis over the estimated 
useful lives of the relevant assets. It is calculated based on acquisition 
cost less any residual value.Property, plant and equipment are depreciated over the following 
estimated useful lives:
Buildings 20 to 50 years
Fixtures and fittings 10 to 30 years
IT equipment 3 to 5 years
Office furniture and equipment 5 to 10 years
Vehicles 5 years
Other equipment 5 years
Residual values and estimated useful lives are reviewed at each 
period end.
The sale of property, plant and equipment gives rise to disposal 
gains and losses corresponding to the difference between the 
selling price and the net carrying amount of the relevant asset.

FInAnCIAL InF orMATIon
Consolidated accounts
305
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI5(in millions of euros) Land, buildings 
and fixtures and 
fittings IT equipment other PP& e Total 
GROSS     
At January 1, 2022 1,036 700 432 2,168 
Translation adjustments (18) (12) (12) (42) 
Acquisitions/Increase 40 137 52 229 
Disposals/Decrease (81) (81) (38) (200) 
Business combinations 2 11 1 14 
Other movements 9 48 (28) 29 
At December 31, 2022 988 803 407 2,198 
Translation adjustments (14) (14) (9) (37) 
Acquisitions/Increase 55 65 46 166 
Disposals/Decrease (91) (66) (25) (182) 
Business combinations 1 1 2 4 
Other movements (11) 8 40 37 
AT DECEMBER 31, 2023 928 797 461 2,186 
ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION AND IMPAIRMENT     
At January 1, 2022 473 523 292 1,288 
Translation adjustments (6) (8) (8) (22) 
Charges and provisions 62 109 42 213 
Reversals (78) (79) (37) (194) 
Business combinations 1 8 1 10 
Other movements 6 37 (16) 27 
At December 31, 2022 458 590 274 1,322 
Translation adjustments (6) (10) (7) (23) 
Charges and provisions 57 110 42 209 
Reversals (79) (64) (24) (167) 
Business combinations 1 1 1 3 
Other movements 5 6 43 54 
AT DECEMBER 31, 2023 436 633 329 1,398 
NET     
At December 31, 2022 530 213 133 876 
AT DECEMBER 31, 2023 492 164 132 788 
Property, plant and equipment by geographic area
(in millions of euros)  At December 31, 2022 At December 31, 2023 
net carrying 
amountAcquisitions  
during the periodNet carrying 
amount Acquisitions 
during the period 
North America 53 19 37 11 
France 180 33 177 34 
United Kingdom and Ireland 75 15 77 15 
Rest of Europe 142 57 127 48 
Asia-Pacific and Latin America 426 105 370 58 
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT 876 229 788 166 

FInAnCIAL InF orMATIon
Consolidated accounts
306
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT5Note 15  Lease right -of-use assets
The Group assesses whether a contract is or contains a lease at 
inception of the contract.
Leases are recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Financial 
Position from the lease commencement date.
These contracts are recognized in “Lease liabilities” and “Lease 
right -of-use assets” in the Consolidated Statement of Financial 
Position.
The lease liability is initially measured at the present value of 
future lease payments, discounted over the estimated lease period 
using the lessee’s incremental borrowing rate per currency. This is 
estimated in each currency using available market data and taking 
account of the average lease term. Lease payments may include 
fixed payments and variable payments that depend on an index 
or a rate known at inception of the contract. The lease liability is 
generally calculated over the firm lease term unless the Group is 
reasonably certain to extend or terminate the lease.The lease liability is subsequently measured at amortized cost 
using the effective interest rate.
The initial value of the lease right -of-use asset comprises the amount 
of the initial measurement of the lease liability, initial direct costs 
and any obligation to restore the asset. For the vehicle fleet, the 
Group has elected not to separate non -lease components from 
lease components and to account for the entire contract as a single 
lease component. The lease right -of-use asset is depreciated over 
the period adopted for the calculation of the lease liability.
In the Consolidated Income Statement, depreciation is recorded 
in the operating margin and interest is recorded in net financial 
expenses.
The related tax impact is recognized in deferred tax in accordance 
with applicable tax legislation in the countries where the leases 
are recognized.
Leases of assets with a low unit value, other than IT equipment, and 
short -term leases are expensed directly in the operating margin.
Description of lease activities
real estate leases
The Group leases land and buildings for its offices, as well as for 
its delivery centers. Terms and conditions are negotiated on an 
individual case basis and contain numerous different clauses. These 
leases are generally entered into for terms of 5 to 20 years and 
may contain extension options providing operational flexibility.vehicle leases
The Group leases vehicles for certain employees in France and 
internationally. These leases are generally entered into for terms 
of 3 to 5 years.
IT and other leases
Finally, the Group also leases some of its IT equipment (computers, 
servers, printers). Terms and conditions are negotiated on an 
individual case basis and contain numerous different clauses. 
These leases are generally entered into for terms of 3 to 5 years.

FInAnCIAL InF orMATIon
Consolidated accounts
307
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI5Lease right -of-use assets
(in millions of euros) Land, buildings and 
fixtures and fittings vehiclesIT equipment and 
other leases Total 
GROSS     
At January 1, 2022 1,317 208 109 1,634 
Translation adjustments (10) (2) - (12) 
Acquisitions/Increase 154 69 14 237 
Disposals/Decrease (138) (54) (28) (220) 
Business combinations 9 - - 9 
Other movements (14) (2) 1 (15) 
At December 31, 2022 1,318 219 96 1,633 
Translation adjustments (8) 1 - (7) 
Acquisitions/Increase 298 94 9 401 
Disposals/Decrease (173) (69) (40) (282) 
Business combinations 2 - - 2 
Other movements (4) 1 (1) (4) 
AT DECEMBER 31, 2023 1,433 246 64 1,743 
ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION AND IMPAIRMENT
At January 1, 2022 646 106 59 811 
Translation adjustments (5) (1) - (6) 
Charges and provisions 214 64 26 304 
Reversals (102) (51) (28) (181) 
Business combinations - - - - 
Other movements (14) (2) - (16) 
At December 31, 2022 739 116 57 912 
Translation adjustments (4) 1 - (3) 
Charges and provisions 204 69 22 295 
Reversals (141) (62) (40) (243) 
Business combinations - - - - 
Other movements (1) 1 (1) (1) 
AT DECEMBER 31, 2023 797 125 38 960 
NET     
At December 31, 2022 579 103 39 721 
AT DECEMBER 31, 2023 636 121 26 783 
Lease right -of-use assets by geographic area
(in millions of euros) December 31, 2022 December 31, 2023 
net carrying amount Net carrying amount 
North America 78 57 
France 240 223 
United Kingdom and Ireland 79 77 
Rest of Europe 206 299 
Asia-Pacific and Latin America 118 127 
LEASE RIGHT ‑OF‑USE ASSETS 721 783 

FInAnCIAL InF orMATIon
Consolidated accounts
308
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT5Lease liabilities
The contractual cash flows presented below are the undiscounted value of future contractual repayments, broken down by average 
remaining maturity of Group leases.
(en millions d’euros)  Carrying amount Contractual cash flows 
At December 31, 2023 Total Less than 
1 year1 to 2   
years2 to 5   
yearsBeyond  
5 years
Lease liabilities 849 932 275 203 310 144
Note 16  Cash -generating units and asset impairment tests
Cash -generating units
The cash -generating units identified by the Group represent the 
nine geographic areas detailed below.
Asset impairment tests
Intangible assets, property, plant and equipment with a definite useful 
life and lease right -of-use assets are tested for impairment when 
there is an indication at the reporting date that their recoverable 
amount may be less than their carrying amount. Goodwill and 
assets with an indefinite useful life are tested for impairment at 
least once a year.
The impairment test consists of assessing the recoverable amount 
of each asset or group of assets generating its own cash flows 
(cash -generating units or CGU).
The recoverable amount is defined as the higher of the fair value 
less costs to sell of the cash -generating unit and its value in use: —  fair value is the amount obtainable in an arm’s length 
transaction and is determined with reference to the price 
in a binding agreement or the market price in recent and 
comparable transactions; 
 —  value in use is based on the discounted future cash flows to 
be derived from these cash -generating units.
The value in use of each cash -generating unit is measured using 
the discounted future cash flow method based on the various 
assumptions in the three -year strategic plan extrapolated over 
a period of two years, including growth and profitability rates 
considered reasonable, representing a total five -year business 
plan. Long -term growth rates and discount rates are determined 
taking account of the specific characteristics of each of the Group’s 
geographic areas. Discount rates reflect the weighted average 
cost of capital, calculated notably based on market data and a 
sample of sector companies. When the recoverable amount of 
a cash -generating unit is less than its net carrying amount, the 
impairment loss is deducted from goodwill to the extent possible 
and charged under “Other operating income and expenses”.
Goodwill per cash‑generating unit
The allocation of goodwill to cash -generating units breaks down as follows:
(in millions of euros)  At December 31, 2022 At December 31, 2023 
Gross value Impairmentnet carrying 
amount Gross value Impairment Net carrying 
amount 
North America 3,766 (8) 3,758 3,696 (8) 3,688 
France 2,212 (1) 2,211 2,181 (1) 2,180 
United Kingdom and Ireland 1,319 - 1,319 1,312 - 1,312 
Benelux 1,177 (12) 1,165 1,166 (12) 1,154 
Southern Europe 382 - 382 379 - 379 
Nordic countries 479 - 479 472 - 472 
Germany and Central Europe 731 (32) 699 759 (32) 727 
Asia-Pacific 998 - 998 1,219 - 1,219 
Latin America 110 (31) 79 114 (32) 82 
GOODWILL 11,174 (84) 11,090 11,298 (85) 11,213 
Goodwill was tested for impairment during the fourth quarter of 2023 in line with the Group valuation procedure for such assets.

FInAnCIAL InF orMATIon
Consolidated accounts
309
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI5The main underlying assumptions were as follows:
December 31, 2023 
Long‑term growth rate Discount rate 
North America 3.0% 8.8% 
Latin America 4.7% 11.7% 
United Kingdom and Ireland 3.0% 9.1% 
Continental Europe 2.6% 8.0% 
Asia-Pacific 4.2% 13.5% 
No impairment losses were recognized at December 31, 2023 as 
a result of these impairment tests.The Group believes that no reasonable change in the key assumptions 
mentioned above would have an impact on the recoverable values 
of its Cash Generating Units as of December 31, 2023.
Note 17  Deferred taxes
Deferred taxes are:
 —  recorded to take account of temporary differences between 
the carrying amounts of certain assets and liabilities and 
their tax basis; 
 —  recognized in income or expenses in the Income Statement, 
in income and expense recognized in equity, or directly in 
equity in the period, depending on the underlying to which 
they relate; 
 —  measured taking account of known changes in tax rates (and 
tax regulations) enacted or substantively enacted at the 
year -end. Adjustments for changes in tax rates to deferred 
taxes previously recognized in the Income Statement, in 
income and expense recognized in equity or directly in 
equity are recognized in the Income Statement, in income 
and expense recognized in equity or directly in equity, 
respectively, in the period in which these changes become 
effective.Deferred tax assets are recognized when it is probable that taxable 
profits will be available against which the recognized tax asset can 
be utilized. The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed 
at each period end. This amount is reduced to the extent that it is 
no longer probable that additional taxable profit will be available 
against which to offset all or part of the deferred tax assets to be 
utilized. Conversely, the carrying amount of deferred tax assets 
will be increased when it becomes probable that future taxable 
profit will be available in the long -term against which to offset tax 
losses not yet recognized. The probability of recovering deferred 
tax assets is primarily assessed based on a 10 -year plan, weighted 
for the probability of future taxable profits being reported.
The main deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset if, and only if, 
the subsidiaries have a legally enforceable right to offset current 
tax assets against current tax liabilities, and when the deferred 
taxes relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities
(in millions of euros) At December 31, 2022 At December 31, 2023 
Deferred tax assets 708 560 
Deferred tax liabilities 308 275 
Net deferred taxes 400 285 

FInAnCIAL InF orMATIon
Consolidated accounts
310
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT5Deferred tax assets by nature
Deferred tax assets and movements therein break down as follows:
(in millions of euros)  Note  Tax loss  
carry - 
forwardsTemporary 
differences on 
amortizable 
goodwillProvisions for 
pensions and  
other post - 
employment 
benefitsother 
deductible 
temporary 
differencesTotal 
deferred  
tax assets  
At January 1, 2022   350 2 159 370 881 
Business combinations   - - - - - 
Translation adjustments   22 - 1 3 26 
Deferred tax recognized in  
the Income Statement 10 (94) 1 (9) 25 (77) 
Deferred tax recorded in income and 
expense recognized in equity   - - (49) (2) (51) 
Other movements, including offset with 
deferred tax liabilities   - - - (71) (71) 
At December 31, 2022   278 3 102 325 708 
Business combinations   - - - 1 1 
Translation adjustments   (7) - (1) (9) (17) 
Deferred tax recognized in  
the Income Statement 10 (100) - (35) 23 (112) 
Deferred tax recorded in income and 
expense recognized in equity   - - 4 - 4 
Other movements, including offset with 
deferred tax liabilities   - - (1) (23) (24) 
AT DECEMBER 31, 2023   171 3 69 317 560 
Recognized tax loss carry -forwards total €171 million at December 31, 2023 (€278 million at December 31, 2022) and primarily concern 
the United States in the amount of €150 million.
Deferred tax liabilities by nature
Deferred tax liabilities and movements therein break down as follows:
(in millions of euros) Note Tax-deductible 
goodwill 
amortizationCustomer 
relationshipsother taxable 
temporary 
differencesTotal 
deferred tax 
liabilities 
At January 1, 2022   66 72 156 294 
Business combinations   - 4 - 4 
Translation adjustments   3 2 (5) - 
Deferred tax recognized in the Income Statement 10 6 (10) 16 12 
Deferred tax recorded in income and  
expense recognized in equity   - - 26 26 
Other movements, including offset with deferred tax assets   - (1) (27) (28) 
At December 31, 2022   75 67 166 308 
Business combinations   - 3 - 3 
Translation adjustments   (1) (1) (1) (3) 
Deferred tax recognized in  
the Income Statement 10 (1) (11) - (12) 
Deferred tax recorded in income and  
expense recognized in equity   - - (12) (12) 
Other movements, including offset with deferred tax assets   - - (9) (9) 
AT DECEMBER 31, 2023   73 58 144 275 

FInAnCIAL InF orMATIon
Consolidated accounts
311
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI5Expiry dates of tax loss carry‑forwards (taxable base)
At December 31 (in millions of euros)  2022 2023 
Amount % Amount  % 
Between 1 and 5 years 110 5 90 5 
Between 6 and 10 years 760 34 461 25 
Between 11 and 15 years 147 7 56 3 
Beyond 15 years (definite expiry date) 1 - 48 3 
Carried forward indefinitely 1,206 54 1,185 64 
TAX LOSS CARRY ‑FORWARDS (taxable base)  2,224 100 1,840 100 
o/w recognized tax losses 1,075 48 621 34 
o/w unrecognized tax losses 1,149 52 1,219 66 
Tax loss carry -forwards total €1,840 million at December 31, 2023 
(€2,224 million at December 31, 2022) and primarily concern 
the United States in the amount of €541 million (€998 million 
at December 31, 2022), France in the amount of €221 million (€242 million at December 31, 2022), Brazil in the amount of 
€370 million (€354 million at December 31, 2022) and Spain in 
the amount of €237 million (€241 million at December 31, 2022).
Unrecognized deferred tax assets
At December 31 (in millions of euros)  2022 2023 
Deferred tax on tax loss carry -forwards 321 343 
Deferred tax on other temporary differences 19 18 
Unrecognized deferred tax assets 340 361 
Note 18  Financial instruments
Financial instruments consist of:
 —  financial assets, including other non -current assets, trade 
receivables, other current assets, cash management assets 
and cash and cash equivalents; 
 —  financial liabilities, including long- and short -term 
borrowings and bank overdrafts, current and non -current 
lease liabilities, accounts payable and other current and 
non -current liabilities; 
 —  derivative instruments.
a)  Recognition of financial instruments
Financial instruments (assets and liabilities) are initially recognized 
in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position at their initial 
fair value.
IFRS 9 provisions regarding the classification and measurement 
of financial assets are based on the Group’s management model 
and the contractual terms of financial assets. Depending on their 
classification in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, 
financial assets and liabilities are subsequently measured at fair 
value through profit or loss, fair value through other comprehensive 
income or amortized cost.
Financial liabilities are classified as measured at amortized cost or 
at fair value through profit or loss if held for trading.
Amortized cost corresponds to the initial carrying amount (net 
of transaction costs), plus interest calculated using the effective 
interest rate, less cash outflows (coupon interest payments and 
repayments of principal and redemption premiums where applicable). Accrued interest (income and expense) is not recorded on the basis 
of the financial instrument’s nominal interest rate, but on the basis 
of its effective interest rate. An expected credit loss is recognized 
on financial assets measured at amortized cost. Any loss in value 
is recognized in the Income Statement.
The fair value of a financial instrument is the amount for which 
an asset could be exchanged, or a liability settled, between 
knowledgeable, willing parties in an arm’s length transaction.
Financial instruments are recognized at inception and on subsequent 
dates in accordance with the methods described below. These 
methods draw on the following interest rate definitions:
 —  the coupon interest rate or coupon, which is the nominal 
interest rate on borrowings; 
 —  the effective interest rate, which is the rate that exactly 
discounts the estimated cash flows through the expected 
term of the instrument, or, where appropriate, a shorter 
period to the net carrying amount of the financial asset or 
liability at initial recognition. The effective interest rate takes 
into account all fees paid or received, transaction costs, and, 
where applicable, premiums to be paid and received; 
 —  the market interest rate, which reflects the effective interest 
rate recalculated at the measurement date based on current 
market parameters.
Financial instruments (assets and liabilities) are derecognized when 
the related risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred, 
and when the Group no longer exercises control over the instruments.

FInAnCIAL InF orMATIon
Consolidated accounts
312
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT5b)  derivative instruments
Derivative instruments mainly comprise forward foreign exchange 
purchase and sale contracts (in the form of tunnels, where applicable).
When operating or financial cash flow hedges are eligible for hedge 
accounting, changes in the fair value of the hedging instruments 
are recognized firstly in “Income and expense recognized in equity” 
and subsequently taken to operating profit or net financial expense 
when the hedged item itself impacts the Income Statement.
All changes in the value of hedging costs (time value of foreign 
exchange options and forward element of foreign exchange 
forward contracts) are recognized in a separate component of 
comprehensive income and released to profit or loss when then 
the hedged flow is realized.
Other derivative instruments are measured at fair value, with changes 
in fair value, estimated based on market rates or data provided by 
bank counterparties, recognized in the Income Statement at the 
reporting date.c)  Fair value measurement
Fair value measurement methods for financial and non -financial 
assets and liabilities as defined above are classified according to 
the following three fair value levels:
 —  Level 1: fair values measured based on quoted prices 
(unadjusted) observed in active markets for identical assets 
or liabilities; 
 —  Level 2: fair values measured using inputs other than quoted 
prices in active markets, that are observable either directly 
(i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices); 
 —  Level 3: fair values of assets or liabilities measured using 
inputs that are not based on observable market data 
(unobservable inputs).
As far as possible, the Group applies Level 1 measurement methods.
Financial instrument classification and fair value hierarchy
The following table presents the net carrying amount of financial assets and liabilities and the fair value of financial instruments broken 
down according to the three classification levels defined above (except for financial instruments where the net carrying amount 
represents a reasonable approximation of fair value).
At December 31, 2023
(in millions of euros)    
Notes net carrying amount Fair value
hedge 
accounting Fair value 
through 
profit or 
lossFair value 
through 
equity Amortized 
cost Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 
FINANCIAL ASSETS          
Shares in non -consolidated 
companies19  35 23    58
Long -term deposits, 
receivables and other 
investments19    172    
Other non -current assets 19    32    
Current and non -current 
asset derivative instruments19 and 21 177     177  
Trade receivables, contract 
assets and contract costs20    5,088    
Other current assets 21    427    
Cash management assets 22  161   161   
Cash and cash equivalents 22  3,536   3,536   
FINANCIAL LIABILITIES          
Bonds  (1) 22    5,721 5,480   
Lease liabilities 15    849    
Drawdowns on bank and 
similar facilities and  
other borrowings22    6    
Liabilities related to 
acquisitions of consolidated 
companies27    53    
Other non -current and 
current liabilities27    202    
Current and non -current 
liability derivative 
instruments27 109     109  
Accounts and notes payable 28    4,568    
Bank overdrafts 22    19    
(1) The detail of the fair value by bond is disclosed in Note 22 – Net debt/net cash and cash equivalents.

FInAnCIAL InF orMATIon
Consolidated accounts
313
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI5Note 19  Other non -current assets
At December 31 (in millions of euros)  Notes 2022 2023 
Long -term deposits, receivables and other investments   168 172 
Shares in associates   118 110 
Derivative instruments 24 65 73 
Non -current tax receivables   218 216 
Shares in non -consolidated companies   50 58 
Defined benefit pension plan surplus 25 182 153 
Other   35 32 
OTHER NON‑CURRENT ASSETS 23 836 814 
Long -term deposits, receivables and other investments consist 
mainly of “ aides à la construction ” (building aid program) loans and 
security deposits and guarantees including a part relating to leases.
Derivative instruments primarily consist of the fair value of derivative 
instruments contracted as part of the centralized management 
of currency risk in the amount of €69 million (current portion of derivative instruments contracted as part of centralized management 
of currency risk of €101 million, see Note 24 – Currency, interest 
rate and counterparty risk management).
Non -current tax receivables at December 31, 2023 mainly consist 
of the tax portion required by the Indian tax authorities following 
tax audits challenged by the Group.
Note 20  Trade receivables, contract assets and contract costs
At December 31 (in millions of euros)  Note 2022 2023 
Trade receivables   3,346 3,306 
Provisions for doubtful accounts   (17) (20) 
Contract assets   1,784 1,670 
Trade receivables and contract assets, excluding contract costs 23 5,113 4,956 
Contract costs 23 140 132 
TRADE RECEIVABLES, CONTRACT ASSETS AND CONTRACT COSTS   5,253 5,088 
Total trade receivables and contract assets net of contract liabilities can be analyzed as follows in number of days’ annual revenue:
At December 31 (in millions of euros)  Note 2022 2023 
Trade receivables and contract assets, excluding contract costs 23 5,113 4,956 
Contract liabilities 23 (1,470) (1,332) 
TRADE RECEIVABLES AND CONTRACT ASSETS NET OF  
CONTRACT LIABILITIES   3,643 3,624 
In number of days’ annual revenue   60 58 
Changes in contract assets and liabilities in fiscal year 2023 are 
mainly due to the following usual factors:
 —  timing differences between revenue recognition, billing and 
collection, leading to the recognition of trade receivables 
and contract assets (sales invoice accruals); 
 —  the receipt of advances from customers, leading to the 
recognition of contract liabilities (advances from customers 
and billed in advance).Client payments terms and conditions comply with local regulations 
in the countries where we operate and, where applicable, standard 
commercial practice and payment schedules defined contractually.
Most contract assets will convert to trade receivables in the next 
six months and most contract liabilities are intended to convert 
to revenues in the coming months.
At December 31, 2023, receivables totaling €2 million were assigned 
with transfer of risk as defined by IFRS 9 to financial institutions 
(€81 million at December 31, 2022). These receivables were 
therefore derecognized in the Statement of Financial Position at 
December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, respectively.

FInAnCIAL InF orMATIon
Consolidated accounts
314
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT5Aged analysis of trade receivables
At end -2023, past due balances total €552 million (€628 million at December 31, 2022) and represent 16.9% of trade receivables less 
provisions for doubtful accounts (18.9% in 2022). The breakdown is as follows:
(in millions of euros) < 30 days> 30 days and  
< 90 days > 90 days
Net trade receivables 393 117 42
As a % of trade receivables, net of provisions for doubtful accounts 12.0% 3.6% 1.3%
Past due balances concern client accounts which are individually 
analyzed and monitored.
Credit risk
The Group’s three largest clients contribute around 7% of Group 
revenues, unchanged on fiscal year 2022. The Group’s five largest 
clients contribute around 10% of Group revenues, unchanged on 
fiscal year 2022. The top ten clients collectively account for 16% of Group revenues. The solvency of these major clients and the 
sheer diversity of the other smaller clients help limit credit risk. 
The economic environment could impact the business activities 
of the Group’s clients, as well as the amounts receivable from 
these clients. However, the Group does not consider that any of its 
clients, business sectors or geographic areas present a significant 
credit risk that could materially impact the financial position of 
the Group as a whole.
Note 21  Other current assets
(in millions of euros)  Notes  2022 2023  
Social security and tax -related receivables, other than income tax   333 366 
Prepaid expenses   288 280 
Derivative instruments 24 98 104 
Other   76 61 
OTHER CURRENT ASSETS 23 795 811 
At December 31, 2023, “Social security and tax -related receivables, other than income tax” include research tax credit receivables of 
€71 million, deducted from operating expenses in 2023 (€65 million at December 31,2022).
Note 22  Net debt/net cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents presented in the Consolidated Statement 
of Cash Flows consist of short- term investments and cash at bank 
less bank overdrafts.
Net debt or net cash and cash equivalents comprise cash and 
cash equivalents as defined above, and cash management assets 
(assets presented separately in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position due to their characteristics), less short -term 
and long -term borrowings. Account is also taken of the impact 
of hedging instruments when these relate to borrowings, 
inter -company loans and own shares. Following the adoption of 
IFRS 16 at January 1, 2019, lease liabilities (including finance lease 
liabilities) are excluded from net debt.

FInAnCIAL InF orMATIon
Consolidated accounts
315
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI5(in millions of euros) 2022 2023 
Short -term investments 2,125 2,536 
Cash at bank 1,677 1,000 
Bank overdrafts (7) (19) 
Cash and cash equivalents, net of bank overdrafts 3,795 3,517 
Cash management assets 386 161 
Bonds (5,650) (5,067) 
Drawdowns on bank and similar facilities and other borrowings (5) (4) 
Long‑term borrowings (5,655) (5,071) 
Bonds (1,071) (654) 
Drawdowns on bank and similar facilities and other borrowings (24) (2) 
Short‑term borrowings (1,095) (656) 
Borrowings (6,750) (5,727) 
Derivative instruments 3 2 
NET DEBT (1) (2,566) (2,047) 
(1) Net debt/net cash and cash equivalents, an alternative performance measure monitored by the Group, is defined in Note 3 – Alternative performance measures.
Short -term investments
At December 31, 2023, short -term investments mainly consist of 
mutual funds and term bank deposits, paying interest at standard 
market rates.
Cash management assets
At December 31, 2023, cash management assets notably consist 
of marketable securities held by certain Group companies which 
do not meet all the monetary UCITS classification criteria defined 
by ESMA (European Securities and Markets Authority) for money 
market mutual funds, particularly with regards to the average 
maturity of the portfolio. These funds may, however, be redeemed 
at any time without penalty.
Borrowings
A)  Bonds
a)  July 1, 2015 bond issues
On June 24, 2015, Capgemini SE performed a “triple tranche” 
bond issue for a total nominal amount of €2,750 million and with 
a settlement/delivery date of July 1, 2015:
 —  2015 bond issue (July 2018)
The July 2018 tranche of €500 million nominal amount, was 
redeemed by the Group at maturity on July 2, 2018.
 —  2015 bond issue (July 2020)
The July 2020 tranche of €1,250 million nominal amount, was 
redeemed early by the Group on June 2, 2020.
 —  2015 bond issue (July 2023)
The July 2023 tranche of €1,000 million nominal amount was 
redeemed by the Group at maturity on July 3, 2023.
b)  April 2018 bond issues
On April 3, 2018, Capgemini SE performed a dual tranche bond issue 
for a total amount of €1,100 million, with a settlement/delivery 
date of April 18, 2018.
 —  2024 bond issue
This tranche has a nominal amount of €600 million, comprising 
6,000 bonds with a unit value of €100,000 each. The bonds 
mature on October 18, 2024 and pay an annual coupon of 1.00% (issue price 99.377%). This tranche was fully subscribed by a bank 
in a debt swap transaction. In exchange for the new securities 
issued, the bank presented 2015 bonds (July 2020) with a nominal 
value of €574.4 million acquired directly on the market through a 
Tender Offer. This bond swap was recognized as a modification to 
a borrowing with the same counterparty, without any substantial 
change to the terms of the debt.
 —  2028 bond issue
This tranche has a nominal amount of €500 million, comprising 
5,000 bonds with a unit value of €100,000 each. The bonds mature 
on April 18, 2028 and pay an annual coupon of 1.75% (issue price 
99.755%).
These two bond issues are callable before their respective maturity 
dates by Capgemini SE, subject to certain conditions set out in 
the issue prospectus and particularly concerning the minimum 
redemption price.
These bond issues are also subject to standard early redemption, 
early repayment and pari passu  clauses.
The terms and conditions of these tranches were set out in the 
prospectus approved by the AMF on April 10, 2018 under reference 
number no. 18 -126.
c)  April 2020 bond issues
On April 8, 2020, Capgemini SE performed a four tranche bond 
issue for a total amount of €3,500 million, with a settlement/
delivery date of April 15, 2020:
 —  2022 Bond issue: this tranche has a nominal amount of 
€500  million, comprising 5,000  bonds with a unit value of 
€100,000 each. The bonds had a maturity date of April 15, 2022 
and paid an annual coupon of 1.25% (issue price 99.794%). 
The bond issue was redeemed early by the Group on 
December 29, 2021; 
 —  2026 Bond issue: this tranche has a nominal amount of 
€800  million, comprising 8,000  bonds with a unit value of 
€100,000 each. The bonds mature on April 15, 2026 and pay 
an annual coupon of 1.625% (issue price 99.412%); 
 —  2029 Bond issue: this tranche has a nominal amount of 
€1  billion, comprising 10,000  bonds with a unit value of 
€100,000 each. The bonds mature on April 15, 2029 and pay 
an annual coupon of 2.0% (issue price 99.163%);

FInAnCIAL InF orMATIon
Consolidated accounts
316
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT5 —  2032 Bond issue: this tranche has a nominal amount of 
€1.2  billion, comprising 12,000  bonds with a unit value of 
€100,000 each. The bonds mature on April 15, 2032 and pay 
an annual coupon of 2.375% (issue price 99.003%).
These bond issues are callable before their respective maturity 
dates by Capgemini SE, subject to certain conditions set out in 
the issue prospectus and particularly concerning the minimum 
redemption price.
These bond issues are also subject to standard early redemption, 
early repayment and pari pass u clauses.
The terms and conditions of these tranches were set out in the 
prospectus approved by the AMF on April 9, 2020 under reference 
number no. 20 -138.
d)  June 2020 bond issues
On June 16, 2020, Capgemini SE performed a dual tranche bond 
issue for a total amount of €1,600 million, with a settlement/
delivery date of June 23, 2020: —  2025 Bond issue: this tranche has a nominal amount of 
€800  million, comprising 8,000  bonds with a unit value of 
€100,000 each. The bonds mature on June 23, 2025 and pay 
an annual coupon of 0.625% (issue price 99.887%); 
 —  2030 Bond issue: this tranche has a nominal amount of 
€800  million, comprising 8,000  bonds with a unit value of 
€100,000 each. The bonds mature on June 23, 2030 and pay 
an annual coupon of 1.125% (issue price 99.521%).
These two bond issues are callable before their respective maturity 
dates by Capgemini SE, subject to certain conditions set out in 
the issue prospectus and particularly concerning the minimum 
redemption price.
These bond issues are also subject to standard early redemption, 
early repayment and pari passu  clauses.
The terms and conditions of these tranches were set out in the 
prospectus approved by the AMF on June 18, 2020 under reference 
number no. 20 -261.
Impact of bonds on the financial statements
At December 31, 2023
(in millions of euros) 2015 
BOND 
ISSUE 2018  
BOND  
ISSUE 2020  
BOND  
ISSUE 
(July   
2023) (October   
2024) (April   
2028) (April   
2026) (April   
2029) (April   
2032) (June   
2025) (June   
2030) 
Debt component at amortized cost, 
including accrued interest - 597 504 806 1,006 1,207 801 800 
Effective interest rate 2.6% 2.0% 1.8% 1.8% 2.2% 2.5% 0.7% 1.2% 
Interest expense recognized in  
the Income Statement for the period 13 12 9 14 21 30 6 10 
Nominal interest rate 2.5% 1.0% 1.75% 1.625% 2.0% 2.375% 0.625% 1.125% 
Nominal interest expense (coupon) 13 6 9 13 20 28 5 9 
At December 31, 2022
(in millions of euros) 2015 
Bond 
Issue2018  
Bond  
Issue2020  
Bond  
Issue
(July   
2023)(October   
2024) (April   
2028)(April   
2026)(April   
2029)(April   
2032)(June   
2025)(June   
2030)
Debt component at amortized cost,  
including accrued interest 1,012 591 504 805 1,004 1,205 801 799
Effective interest rate 2.6% 2.0% 1.8% 1.8% 2.2% 2.5% 0.7% 1.2%
Interest expense recognized in  
the Income Statement for the period 26 12 9 14 21 30 6 10
Nominal interest rate 2.5% 1.0% 1.75% 1.625% 2.0% 2.375% 0.625% 1.125%
Nominal interest expense (coupon) 25 6 9 13 20 28 5 9
Fair value of bonds
The fair value of bond issues is estimated based on the value of all future flows discounted on the basis of the market conditions in force 
as of December 31, 2023 on a similar instrument (in terms of currency, maturity, type of interest and other factors).
At December 31, 2023
(in millions of euros) 2018  
BOND  
ISSUE 2020  
BOND  
ISSUE 
(October   
2024) (April   
2028) (April   
2026) (April   
2029) (April   
2032) (June   
2025) (June   
2030) 
Fair value 588 484 785 972 1,160 771 720 
Market rate 3.82% 2.88% 3.04% 2.86% 3.07% 3.41% 2.95% 

FInAnCIAL InF orMATIon
Consolidated accounts
317
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI5At December 31, 2022
(in millions of euros) 2015 
Bond 
Issue2018  
Bond  
Issue2020  
Bond  
Issue
(July   
2023)(October  
2024)(April   
2028)(April   
2026)(April   
2029)(April   
2032)(June   
2025)(June   
2030)
Fair value 1,010 576 460 761 919 1,079 749 668
Market rate 2.94% 3.5% 3.71% 3.6% 3.72% 3.91% 3.5% 3.8%
B)  Breakdown of borrowings by currency
(in millions of euros)  At December 31, 2022 At December 31, 2023 
euroother 
currencies Total Euro Other 
currencies Total 
2015 Bond issue – July 2023 1,012 - 1,012 - - - 
2018 Bond issue – October 2024 591 - 591 597 - 597 
2018 Bond issue – April 2028 504 - 504 504 - 504 
April 2020 Bond issue – April 2026 805 - 805 806 - 806 
April 2020 Bond issue – April 2029 1,004 - 1,004 1,006 - 1,006 
April 2020 Bond issue – April 2032 1,205 - 1,205 1,207 - 1,207 
June 2020 Bond issue – June 2025 801 - 801 801 - 801 
June 2020 Bond issue – June 2030 799 - 799 800 - 800 
Drawdowns on bank and similar facilities and other 
borrowings 13 16 29 6 - 6 
Bank overdrafts 2 5 7 18 1 19 
BORROWINGS 6,736 21 6,757 5,745 1 5,746 
C)  Syndicated credit facility negotiated by 
Capgemini SE
On February 9, 2021, the Group signed with a syndicate of 
18 banks a €1 billion multi -currency credit facility, maturing on  
February 9, 2026, with two one -year extension options, exercisable 
(subject to the approval of the banks) at the end of the first and 
second years, respectively, extending the maturity of the new facility 
by a maximum of two additional years. In January 2023, Capgemini 
exercised the second one -year extension option, extending the 
maturity to February 7, 2028.
An upgrade or downgrade in Capgemini SE’s credit rating would 
have no impact on the availability of this new credit facility. This 
new credit facility has no financial covenants. This credit facility 
had not been drawn at December 31, 2023.
D)  Bilateral facilities
In 2023, the Group set -up bilateral facilities with financial institutions 
for a period of 12 months, plus a 6 -month extension option (subject 
to the approval of the banks), for a total amount of €750 million. 
These facilities may be drawn down and repaid in line with the 
Group’s liquidity needs. They were not drawn at December 31, 2023.
Net debt/net cash and cash equivalents and  
liquidity risk
Bond issues and outstanding short -term negotiable debt securities 
issued by Capgemini SE are the main borrowings that could expose 
the Group to liquidity risk in the event of repayment.
To manage the liquidity risk that could arise from these borrowings 
becoming due and payable, at the contractual due date or early, 
the Group has implemented a conservative financing policy mainly 
based on:
 —  prudent use of debt leveraging, coupled with limited use of 
any clauses that could lead to early repayment of borrowings; —  the maintenance of an adequate level of liquidity on balance 
sheet at all times; 
 —  actively managing borrowing due dates in order to limit the 
concentration of maturities; 
 —  using diverse sources of financing, allowing the Group to 
reduce its reliance on certain categories of lenders.
Net debt/net cash and cash equivalents and credit 
risk
Financial assets which could expose the Group to credit or 
counterparty risk mainly consist of financial investments: in 
accordance with Group policy, cash balances are not invested in 
equity -linked products, but in (i) short -term money market mutual 
funds, (ii) term deposits, (iii) short -term negotiable securities issued 
by credit institutions or (iv) capitalization contracts, subject to 
diversification and counterparty rules.
At December 31, 2023, short -term investments totaled €2,536 million 
and comprise mainly (i) money market mutual fund units meeting 
the criteria defined by ESMA (European Securities and Markets 
Authority) for classification in the “monetary category”; and 
(ii) negotiable debt securities and term deposits maturing within 
three months or immediately available, issued by highly rated 
companies or financial institutions (minimum rating of A2/P2 or 
equivalent locally). Consequently, these short -term investments 
do not expose the Group to any material counterparty risk.
Net debt by maturity at redemption value
The amounts indicated below correspond to the undiscounted 
value of future contractual cash flows. Future cash flows relating to 
the outstanding bond issues were estimated based on contractual 
nominal interest rates and assuming the bonds would be redeemed 
in full at maturity.

FInAnCIAL InF orMATIon
Consolidated accounts
318
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT5At December 31, 2023
(in millions of euros) Contractual 
maturity Carrying 
amountContractual 
cash flowsLess 
than 
1 year1 to 
2 years2 to 
5 yearsBeyond 
5 years
Cash and cash equivalents 2023 3,517 3,517 3,517 - - -
Cash management assets 2023 161 161 161 - - -
2018 Bond issue – October 2024 2024 (597) (606) (606) - - -
2018 Bond issue – April 2028 2028 (504) (544) (9) (9) (526) -
April 2020 Bond issue – April 2026 2026 (806) (839) (13) (13) (813) -
April 2020 Bond issue – April 2029 2029 (1,006) (1,120) (20) (20) (60) (1,020)
April 2020 Bond issue – April 2032 2032 (1,207) (1,457) (29) (29) (86) (1,313)
June 2020 Bond issue – June 2025 2025 (801) (810) (5) (805) - -
June 2020 Bond issue – June 2030 2030 (800) (863) (9) (9) (27) (818)
Drawdowns on bank and similar facilities and 
other borrowings  (6) (6) (2) (1) (2) (1)
BORROWINGS  (5,727) (6,245) (693) (886) (1,514) (3,152)
Derivative instruments on borrowings  2      
NET DEBT  (2,047) (2,567) 2,985 (886) (1,514) (3,152)
Note 23  Cash flows
The Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows analyzes the  
year -on-year change in cash flows from operating, investing and 
financing activities.Foreign currency cash flows are translated into euros at the average 
exchange rate for the year. Exchange gains or losses resulting from 
the translation of cash flows relating to foreign currency assets 
and liabilities at the year -end exchange rate are shown in “Effect 
of exchange rate movements on cash and cash equivalents” in the 
Statement of Cash Flows.
At December 31, 2023, cash and cash equivalents totaled €3,517 million 
(see Note 22 – Net debt/net cash and cash equivalents), down 
€278 million on December 31, 2022 (€3,795 million). Excluding the 
impact of exchange rate fluctuations on cash and cash equivalents 
of negative €115 million, this decrease is €163 million. Cash flow 
impacts are shown in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.Net cash from operating activities
In 2023, net cash from operating activities totaled €2,525 million 
(compared with €2,517 million in 2022) and resulted from:
 —  cash flows from operations before net finance costs and 
income tax in the amount of €3,308 million; 
 —  payment of current income taxes in the amount of 
€463 million; 
 —  changes in working capital requirements, generating a 
negative cash impact of €320 million.

FInAnCIAL InF orMATIon
Consolidated accounts
319
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI5Changes in working capital requirements (WCR) and the reconciliation with the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position are as follows:
(in millions of euros)    
Notes  Working capital requirement components 
(Consolidated s tatement of Financial Position)neutralization of items  
with no cash impactstatement 
of Cash 
Flows items
December   
31, 2022December   
31, 2023net 
impactnon- 
working 
capital 
items (1) Impact 
of WC r 
itemsnet 
profit 
impactForeign 
exchange 
impactReclassifi ‑ 
cations  (2) 
and 
changes 
in Group 
structure Amount
Trade receivables and 
contract assets,  
excl. contract costs 20 5,113 4,956 157 - 157 - (47) 12 122
Contract costs 20 140 132 8 - 8 - - - 8
Contract liabilities 20 (1,470) (1,332) (138) - (138) - 6 3 (129)
Change in trade 
receivables, contract 
assets, contract 
liabilities and contract 
costs     27 - 27 - (41) 15 1
Accounts and notes 
payable (trade payables) 28 (1,712) (1,537) (175) (10) (185) - 17 - (168)
Change in accounts and 
notes payable     (175) (10) (185) - 17 - (168)
Other non -current assets 19 836 814 22 (18) 4 - - (2) 2
Other current assets 21 795 811 (16) (74) (90) 1 (2) 4 (87)
Accounts and notes 
payable (excluding  
trade payables) 28 (3,037) (3,031) (6) 3 (3) - 24 (19) 2
Other current and 
non -current liabilities 27 (787) (558) (229) 156 (73) - (1) 4 (70)
Change in other 
receivables/payables     (229) 67 (162) 1 21 (13) (153)
CHANGE IN OPERATING 
WORKING CAPITAL       (320) 1 (3) 2 (320)
(1) Non -working capital items comprise cash flows relating to investing and financing activities, payment of the income tax expense and non -cash items.
(2) The Reclassifications heading mainly includes changes relating to the current and non -current reclassification of certain accounts and notes receivable and payable and 
changes in the position of certain tax and employee -related receivables and payables in assets or liabilities.
Net cash used in investing activities
The main components of net cash used in investing activities of 
€383 million (compared with a cash outflow of €659 million in 
2022) reflect:
 —  cash outflows of €161  million relating to acquisitions of 
property, plant and equipment, net of disposals, primarily 
due to purchases of computer hardware for customer 
projects or the partial renewal of IT installations and the 
renovation, extension and refurbishment of office space; 
 —  cash outflows of €93  million relating to acquisitions of 
intangible assets, net of disposals, mainly involving software 
for customer projects or for internal use and internally 
generated intangible assets (see Note  13 – Goodwill and 
intangible assets); 
 —  cash outflows on business combinations, net of cash and 
cash equivalents acquired, of €343 million.Net cash from financing activities
Net cash outflows as a result of financing activities totaled 
€2,305 million (compared with net cash outflows of €1,124 million 
in 2022) and mainly comprised:
 —  payment of the 2022 dividend of €559 million; 
 —  cash outflows of €297 million to repay lease liabilities; 
 —  cash outflows of €876 million for the buyback of own shares; 
 —  the repayment for €1,000 million of the 2015 bond maturing 
in July 2023; 
offset by:
 —  the €465  million share capital increase following the issue 
of new shares under the international employee share 
ownership plan (see Note 12 – Equity).

FInAnCIAL InF orMATIon
Consolidated accounts
320
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT5The variation in borrowings during the fiscal year breaks down as follows:
(in millions of euros)  Note  December   
31, 2022December   
31, 2023 net 
impactProceeds 
from borro -
wings in s CFrepayments 
of borro -
wings in s CFreclassi -
fication 
non -current/
currentChanges 
in Group 
structure other (1) 
Bonds 22 (5,650) (5,067) 583 - - 583 - -
Drawdowns on bank 
and similar facilities and 
other borrowings 22 (5) (4) 1 - - 1 - -
Long‑term borrowings   (5,655) (5,071) 584 - - 584 - -
Bonds 22 (1,071) (654) 417 - 1,000 (583) - -
Drawdowns on bank 
and similar facilities and 
other borrowings 22 (24) (2) 22 (1,905) 1,932 (1) (4) -
Short‑term borrowings   (1,095) (656) 439 (1,905) 2,932 (584) (4) -
BORROWINGS   (6,750) (5,727) 1,023 (1,905) 2,932 ‑ (4) ‑
(1) Mainly the net change in coupons during the fiscal year .
Organic free cash flow
Organic free cash flow calculated based on items in the Statement of 
Cash Flows is equal to cash flow from operations less acquisitions of 
property, plant, equipment and intangible assets (net of disposals) and repayments of lease liabilities and adjusted for flows relating 
to the net interest cost.
At December 31 (in millions of euros)  2022 2023 
Cash flows from operating activities 2,517 2,525 
Acquisitions of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (290) (259) 
Proceeds from disposals of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 7 5 
Acquisitions of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets  
(net of disposals) (283) (254) 
Interest paid (136) (182) 
Interest received 65 171 
Net interest cost (71) (11) 
Repayments of lease liabilities (311) (297) 
ORGANIC FREE CASH FLOW 1,852 1,963 
Note 24  Currency, interest rate and counterparty risk management
Currency risk management
A)  Exposure to currency risk and currency risk 
management policy
a)  Currency risk and hedging of operating transactions
The significant use of offshore delivery centers located in India, 
Poland and Latin America exposes the Group to currency risk with 
respect to some of its production costs.
The Group implements a policy aimed at minimizing and managing 
these currency risks, due in the majority to internal flows with 
India in respect of production costs denominated in Indian rupee. 
The hedging policy and the management of operational currency 
risk are centralized at parent company level. Currency risk is 
managed primarily based on periodic reporting by subsidiaries of 
their exposure to currency risk over principally the coming 1 to 
3 years. On this basis, the parent company grants internal currency 
guarantees to subsidiaries and enters into currency hedges with its bank counterparties, primarily through forward purchase and 
sale foreign exchange contracts.
These hedging transactions are recorded in accordance with cash 
flow hedge accounting rules.
The Group determines the existence of an economic link between 
the hedging instrument and the hedged item based on the currency, 
amount and timing of their respective cash flows.
b)  Currency risk and hedging of financial transactions
The Group is exposed to the risk of exchange rate fluctuations 
in respect of:
 —  inter -company financing transactions, notably within the 
parent company; these flows are generally hedged (in 
particular using forward purchase and sale foreign exchange 
contracts), except financial flows that are an integral part of 
the net investment in subsidiaries;

FInAnCIAL InF orMATIon
Consolidated accounts
321
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI5 —  fees paid to the parent company by subsidiaries whose 
functional currency is not the euro, also hedged.
c)  sensitivity of revenues and the operating margin (1) to 
fluctuations in the main currencies
A 10% fluctuation in the US dollar -euro exchange rate would trigger 
a corresponding 2.6% change in revenues and a 2.2% change in 
the operating margin amount(1). Similarly, a 10% fluctuation in the 
pound sterling -euro exchange rate would trigger a corresponding 
1.2% change in revenues and a 1.5% change in the operating 
margin amount  (1).
(1) Operating margin, an alternative performance measure monitored by the Group, is defined in Note 3 – Alternative performance measures.B)  Hedging derivatives
Amounts hedged at December 31, 2023 principally using forward 
purchase and sale foreign exchange contracts, mainly concern the 
parent company and the centralized management of currency risk 
on operating transactions and inter -company financing transactions.
At December 31, 2023, the euro -equivalent nominal value of foreign 
exchange derivatives (forward purchase and sale foreign exchange 
contracts, where appropriate in the form of tunnels) breaks down 
by transaction type and maturity as follows:
(in millions of euros) < 6 months> 6 months and 
< 12 months > 12 months Total 
Operating transactions 2,972 2,570 4,626 10,168 
o/w:  – fair value hedge 968 ‑ ‑ 968 
  –  cash flow hedge 2,004 2,570 4,626 9,200 
Financial transactions 672 - 345 1,017 
o/w:  – fair value hedge 672 ‑ 345 1,017 
TOTAL 3,644 2,570 4,971 11,185 
Hedges contracted in respect of operating transactions mainly 
comprise forward purchase and sale foreign exchange contracts 
maturing between 2024 and 2027 with an aggregate euro -equivalent 
value at closing exchange rates of €10,168 million (€9,145 million 
at December 31, 2022). The increase in volume came notably from 
the growth of the Group activity during the period.
The hedges, part of the centralized management of currency risk, 
were chiefly taken out in respect of transactions in Indian rupee 
(INR 452,536 million), US dollars (USD 3,642 million) and Polish 
zloty (PLN 3,672 million). The maturities of these hedges range from 1 to 37 months and the main counterparty is Capgemini SE 
for a euro -equivalent value of €10,054 million.
Hedges contracted in respect of financial transactions concern an 
inter -company loan in US dollars at December 31, 2023.
The net residual exposure to currency risk on intragroup operating 
transactions denominated in Indian rupee with the delivery centers 
located in India (see A)a)) results from the Group’s currency risk 
management policy. The net exposure at December 31, 2023 and 
December 31, 2022, is therefore limited.
C)  Fair value of hedging derivatives
Hedging derivatives are recorded in the following accounts:
At December 31 (in millions of euros)  Notes 2022 2023 
Other non -current assets 19 65 73 
Other current assets 21 98 104 
Other non -current and current liabilities 27 (180) (109) 
Fair value of hedging derivatives, net   (17) 68 
Relating to:  – operating transactions   (20) 66 
  –  financial transactions   3 2 
The main derivative instruments hedging operating transactions 
notably comprise the fair value of derivative instruments contracted 
as part of the centralized management of currency risk recorded 
in “Other non -current assets” in the amount of €69 million, in 
“Other current assets” in the amount of €101 million, in “Other non -current liabilities” in the amount of €43 million and in “Other 
current liabilities” in the amount of €61 million. The main derivative 
instruments hedging financial transactions notably comprise the 
fair value of instruments contracted to hedge an inter -company 
loan in US dollars at December 31, 2023.

FInAnCIAL InF orMATIon
Consolidated accounts
322
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT5The change in the period in derivative instruments hedging operating and financial transactions recorded in “Income and expense 
recognized in equity” breaks down as follows:
(in millions of euros)  2023  
Hedging derivatives recorded in income and expense recognized in equity (at January 1) (87) 
Amounts reclassified to net profit at December 31, 2023 (9) 
Changes in fair value of derivative instruments and net investment 76 
Hedging derivatives recorded in income and expense recognized in equity (at December 31)  (20) 
No hedging relationships were discontinued during the fiscal 
year. The equity balance consists only of the fair value of existing 
hedging instruments.
Interest rate risk management
A)  Interest rate risk management policy
The Group’s exposure to interest rate risk should be analyzed 
in light of its cash position: at December 31, 2023, the Group 
had €3,697 million in liquidity on balance sheet, with short -term 
investments mainly at floating rates (or at fixed rates for periods 
of less than or equal to three months) or, market mutual funds 
presenting characteristics making them eligible for classification as 
SICAVs (according to the criteria defined by ESMA), and €5,746 million 
in gross indebtedness at fixed rates (100%) (see Note 22 – Net 
debt/net cash and cash equivalents).B)  Exposure to interest rate risk: sensitivity analysis
As Group borrowings were 100% at fixed rates at December 31, 2023, 
any increase or decrease in interest rates would not have had any 
impact on the Group’s net finance costs.
Based on average levels of short -term investments, cash management 
assets and some interest -bearing current accounts, a 100 -basis point 
rise in interest rates would have had a positive impact of around 
€22 million on the Group’s net finance costs in 2023. Conversely, a 
100 -basis point fall in interest rates would have had an estimated 
€22 million negative impact on the Group’s net finance costs.
Counterparty risk management
In line with its policies for managing currency and interest rate risks 
as described above, the Group enters into hedging agreements 
with leading financial institutions. Accordingly, counterparty risk 
can be deemed not material. At December 31, 2023, the Group’s 
main counterparties for managing currency and interest rate 
risk are Barclays, BNP Paribas, CA CIB, Citibank, Commerzbank, 
HSBC, ING, JP Morgan, Morgan Stanley, MUFG, Natixis, Standard 
Chartered and Société Générale.

FInAnCIAL InF orMATIon
Consolidated accounts
323
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI5Note 25  Provisions for pensions and other post‑employment benefits
Defined contribution plans
Defined contribution plans are funded by contributions paid by 
employees and Group companies to the organizations responsible 
for managing the plans. The Group’s obligations are limited to the 
payment of such contributions which are expensed as incurred. The 
Group’s obligation under these plans is recorded in “Accounts and 
notes payable”. Defined contribution plans are operated in most 
European countries (France, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, 
Germany and Central Europe, Nordic countries, Italy and Spain), in 
the United States and in the Asia-Pacific area.
Defined benefit pension plans
Defined benefit pension plans consist of either:
 —  unfunded plans, where benefits are paid directly by the 
Group and the related obligation is covered by a provision 
corresponding to the present value of future benefit 
payments. Estimates are based on regularly reviewed 
internal and external assumptions. These unfunded plans 
correspond mainly to retirement termination payments and 
healthcare assistance plans; 
 —  funded plans, where the benefit obligation is covered by 
external funds. Group contributions to these external funds 
are made in accordance with the specific regulations in force 
in each country.
Obligations under these plans are determined by independent 
actuaries using the projected unit credit method. Under this method, 
each period of service gives rise to an additional unit of benefit 
entitlement and each of these units is valued separately in order 
to obtain the amount of the Group’s final obligation.The resulting obligation is discounted by reference to market yields 
on high quality corporate bonds, denominated in the payment 
currency of benefits and consistent with forecast cash outflows 
of the post -employment benefit obligation.
For funded plans, only the estimated funding deficit is covered 
by a provision.
When the calculation of the obligation produces a plan gain and 
the Group has an unconditional right to repayment, an asset is 
recognized and capped in the amount of the sum of the present 
value of gains available in the form of future repayments or 
reductions in plan contributions. In this case, the plan surplus is 
recognized in non -current assets.
Current and past service costs – corresponding to an increase in the 
obligation – are recorded in “Operating expenses” of the period.
Gains or losses on the curtailment, settlement or transfer of defined 
benefit pension plans are recorded in “Other operating income” 
or “Other operating expense”.
The impact of discounting defined benefit obligations as well as 
the expected return on plan assets are recorded net in “Other 
financial expense” or “Other financial income”.
Actuarial gains and losses correspond to the effect of changes in 
actuarial assumptions and experience adjustments (i.e. differences 
between projected actuarial assumptions and actual data) on the 
amount of the benefit obligation or the value of plan assets. They 
are recognized in full in “Income and expense recognized in equity” 
in the year in which they arise (with the related tax effect).
Breakdown of provisions for pensions and other post‑employment benefits
Provisions for pensions and other post -employment benefits comprise 
obligations under funded defined benefit plans particularly in the United Kingdom and obligations primarily relating to retirement 
termination payments (particularly in France, Germany and Sweden).
Provision for pensions and other post‑employment benefits by main countries
(in millions of euros)  obligation Plan assetsnet commitment in 
the Consolidated 
statement of 
Financial Position
2022 2023 2022 2023 2022 2023 
United Kingdom 2,292 2,404 (2,470) (2,551) (178) (147) 
Canada (1) 240 - (220) - 20 - 
France 209 224 (14) (9) 195 215 
Germany 120 142 (77) (88) 43 54 
India 142 158 (79) (139) 63 19 
Other 300 303 (260) (266) 40 37 
NET OBLIGATION AT DECEMBER 31 3,303 3,231 (3,120) (3,053) 183 178 
(1) In 2022 and 2023, following the transfer of employees working exclusively on two Canadian client contracts, the Group also transferred the management of their pension 
and other post -employment benefit plans, thereby reducing the present value of its obligation in Canada at December 31, 2022 and at December 31, 2023.

FInAnCIAL InF orMATIon
Consolidated accounts
324
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT5Movements in provisions for pensions and other post -employment benefits during the last two fiscal years were as follows:
(in millions of euros)    
Notes obligation Plan assetsnet commitment in 
the Consolidated 
statement of 
Financial Position
2022 2023 2022 2023 2022 2023 
PRESENT VALUE OF THE OBLIGATION AT 
JANUARY 1   5,537 3,303 (4,987) (3,120) 550 183 
Expense for the period recognized in  
the Income Statement   (119) (24) 166 80 47 56 
Service cost 7 67 53 - - 67 53 
Plan curtailments and settlements 8 (296) (220) 267 220 (29) - 
Interest cost 9 110 143 (101) (140) 9 3 
Impact on income and expense recognized in equity   (1,733) 77 1,460 (7) (273) 70 
Impact on income and expense recognized in equity   (1,733) 77 - - (1,733) 77 
Impact of changes in financial assumptions   (1,726) 116 ‑ ‑ (1,726) 116 
Impact of changes in demographic assumptions   (7) (38) ‑ ‑ (7) (38) 
Experience adjustments   ‑ (1) ‑ ‑ ‑ (1) 
Return on plan assets (1)   - - 1,460 (7) 1,460 (7) 
Other   (382) (125) 241 (6) (141) (131) 
Contributions paid by employees   6 7 (5) (6) 1 1 
Benefits paid to employees   (200) (169) 175 132 (25) (37) 
Contributions paid   - - (60) (87) (60) (87) 
Translation adjustments   (118) 39 131 (43) 13 (4) 
Business combinations   - 2 - (2) - - 
Other movements   (70) (4) - - (70) (4) 
NET OBLIGATION AT DECEMBER 31   3,303 3,231 (3,120) (3,053) 183 178 
o/w Provisions   ‑ ‑ ‑ ‑ 365 331 
o/w Other non‑current assets   ‑ ‑ ‑ ‑ 182 153 
(1) After deduction of financial income on plan assets recognized in the Income Statement and calculated using the discount rate.
Analysis of the change in provisions for pensions and 
other post‑employment benefits by main country
A)  United Kingdom
In the United Kingdom, post -employment benefits primarily consist 
of defined contribution pension plans.
A very small number of employees accrue pensionable service 
within a defined benefit pension plan.
In addition, certain former and current employees accrue deferred 
benefits in defined benefit pension plans. The plans are administered 
within trusts which are legally separate from the employer. 
Each trust is governed by a Board of Directors composed of an 
independent Chairman and trustees appointed by the employer, 
Capgemini UK Plc, as well as trustees appointed by the members 
of the pension plans.
The defined benefit pension plans provide pensions and lump sums 
to members on retirement and to their dependents on death. 
Members who leave service before retirement are entitled to a 
deferred pension.
Employees covered by defined benefit pension plans break down 
as follows:
 —  60  current employees accruing pensionable service (68  at 
December 31, 2022);  —  5,106  former and current employees not accruing 
pensionable service (5,352 at December 31, 2022); 
 —  4,443 retirees (4,243 at December 31, 2022).
The plans are subject to the supervision of the UK Pension Regulator; 
the funding schedules for these plans are determined by the Board 
of Directors of each pension plans on the proposal of an independent 
actuary, after discussion with Capgemini UK Plc, the employer, as 
part of actuarial valuations usually carried out every three years. 
Capgemini UK Plc, the employer, gives firm commitments to the 
trustees regarding the funding of any deficits identified, over an 
agreed period.
The responsibility to fund these plans lies with the employer. The 
defined benefit pension plans expose the Group to the increase 
in liabilities that could result from changes in the life expectancy 
of members, fluctuations in interest and inflation rates and, more 
generally, a downturn in financial markets.
The average maturity of pension plans in the United Kingdom is 
14 years.
In accordance with local regulations, the non -renewal of certain 
client contracts in full or in part could require Capgemini UK Plc 
to bring forward the funding of any deficits in respect of the 
employees concerned.

FInAnCIAL InF orMATIon
Consolidated accounts
325
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI5(in millions of euros)  obligation Plan assetsnet commitment in 
the Consolidated 
statement of 
Financial Position
2022 2023 2022 2023 2022 2023 
PRESENT VALUE OF THE OBLIGATION/(SURPLUS) AT 
JANUARY 1 3,809 2,292 (3,914) (2,470) (105) (178) 
Expense for the period recognized in the Income 
Statement 65 111 (73) (119) (8) (8) 
Service cost 2 1 - - 2 1 
Plan curtailments and settlements (8) - - - (8) - 
Interest cost 71 110 (73) (119) (2) (9) 
Impact on income and expense recognized in equity (1,349) 44 1,278 - (71) 44 
Change in actuarial gains and losses (1,349) 44 - - (1,349) 44 
Impact of changes in financial assumptions (1,342) 69 ‑ ‑ (1,342) 69 
Impact of changes in demographic assumptions (2) (30) ‑ ‑ (2) (30) 
Experience adjustments (5) 5 ‑ ‑ (5) 5 
Return on plan assets (1) - - 1,278 - 1,278 - 
Other (233) (43) 239 38 6 (5) 
Benefits paid to employees (86) (90) 86 90 - - 
Contributions paid - - (2) (2) (2) (2) 
Translation adjustments (147) 47 155 (50) 8 (3) 
PRESENT VALUE OF THE OBLIGATION/(SURPLUS) AT 
DECEMBER 31 2,292 2,404 (2,470) (2,551) (178) (147) 
(1) After deduction of financial income on plan assets recognized in the Income Statement and calculated using the discount rate.
a)  Main actuarial assumptions
Discount rate, salary inflation rate and inflation rate
(in %) At December 31, 2022 At December 31, 2023 
Discount rate 4.8 4.6 
Salary inflation rate 2,4-3,2 2,4-3,2 
Inflation rate 3.2 3.2 
In 2023, the benchmark indexes used to calculate discount rates 
were similar to those used in previous years.Mortality tables used are those commonly used in the United 
Kingdom.
b)  Plan assets
(in millions of euros) 2022 2023 
Shares 895 36% 756 30% 
Bonds and hedging assets 1,340 54% 1,574 62% 
Other 235 10% 221 8% 
TOTAL 2,470 100% 2,551 100% 
Shares correspond to investments in equities or diversified growth 
investments, the majority of which in developed country markets.Bonds and hedging assets mainly consist of listed bonds. A portion 
of these investments seeks to partially hedge interest rate and 
inflation risk on the plan liabilities; this matching portfolio consists 
of UK government bonds (GILT), owned directly or borrowed via 
sale and repurchase agreements.

FInAnCIAL InF orMATIon
Consolidated accounts
326
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT5c)  sensitivity analysis of the obligation
(in millions of euros)  Impact on the obligation at 
December 31, 2023 
Rate  
increase Rate 
decrease 
Increase/decrease of 200 basis points in the discount rate (538) 827 
Increase/decrease of 50 basis points in the inflation rate 117 (118) 
Increase/decrease of 50 basis points in the mortality rate (41) 40 
d)  Future contributions
Contributions to defined benefit pension funds in the United 
Kingdom are estimated at €2 million for fiscal year 2024, including 
the funding of pension plan deficits over the period defined with 
the trustees as part of the regular actuarial valuations.B)  France
In France, post -employment benefits primarily consist of retirement 
termination plans. Payments under these plans are determined 
by collective bargaining agreements and based on the employee’s 
salary and seniority on retirement. The Group provides for its 
commitments to employees in accordance with the provisions of 
the Syntec collective bargaining agreement on departures and 
retirement. This liability changes, in particular, in line with actuarial 
assumptions as presented below:
(in %) At December 31, 2022 At December 31, 2023 
Discount rate 3.6 3.1 
Salary inflation rate 2.0 2.0 
The average maturity of pension plans in France is between 10 and 
13 years depending on the pension plan.The pension reform adopted in France during the financial year 
and resulting in an extension of the length of service did not have 
a significant impact on the amount of provisions for retirement 
benefits.
Note 26  Non -current and current provisions
A provision is recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Financial 
Position at the year -end if, and only if, (i) the Group has a present 
obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, (ii) it 
is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and (iii) a reliable 
estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. Provisions are 
discounted when the impact of the time value of money is material.
Movements in non -current and current provisions break down as follows:
(in millions of euros) 2022 2023 
At January 1 481 442 
Allowances 45 60 
Reversals (utilization of provisions) (28) (32) 
Reversals (unused provisions) (57) (26) 
Other 1 1 
At December 31 442 445 
At December 31, 2023, non -current provisions (€327 million) and 
current provisions (€118 million) concern risks relating to projects 
and contracts of €111 million (€94 million at December 31, 2022) 
and risks of €334 million (€348 million at December 31, 2022), mainly relating to labor and legal disputes in France and tax risks 
(excluding income tax) in India.

FInAnCIAL InF orMATIon
Consolidated accounts
327
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI5Note 27  Other non -current and current liabilities
At December 31 (in millions of euros)  Notes  2022 2023  
Special employee profit -sharing reserve   57 46 
Derivative instruments 24 180 109 
Liabilities related to acquisitions of consolidated companies   82 53 
Non -current tax payables   251 194 
Other   217 156 
OTHER NON ‑CURRENT AND CURRENT LIABILITIES 23 787 558 
Other current and non -current liabilities mainly include the 
non -current tax payables on tax audit, litigation or pre -litigation 
proceedings in India and France.
The change in “Other non -current and current liabilities” during 
2023 came mainly from the change in the fair value of hedging 
derivatives contracted as part of the centralized management of currency risk as well as the settlement of the liability relating to the 
transfer of pension plans and related commitments of employees 
working exclusively on a Canadian client contract.
Liabilities related to acquisitions of consolidated companies mainly 
comprise earn -outs granted at the time of certain acquisitions.
Note 28  Accounts and notes payable
At December 31 (in millions of euros)  Note  2022 2023  
Trade payables   1,712 1,537 
Accrued taxes other than income tax   765 753 
Personnel costs   2,253 2,257 
Other   19 21 
ACCOUNTS AND NOTES PAYABLE 23 4,749 4,568 
Note 29  Number of employees
Average number of employees by geographic area
2022 2023 
number of employees % Number of employees  % 
North America 20,693 6 19,709 6 
France 38,598 11 39,161 11 
United Kingdom and Ireland 13,218 4 14,477 4 
Rest of Europe 66,927 19 69,897 20 
Africa and Middle East 5,475 2 6,794 2 
Asia-Pacific and Latin America 202,847 58 199,755 57 
AVERAGE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES 347,758 100 349,793 100 
Number of employees at period -end by geographic area
2022 2023 
number of employees % Number of employees  % 
North America 20,891 6 18,941 6 
France 39,479 11 38,460 11 
United Kingdom and Ireland 14,182 4 14,391 4 
Rest of Europe 69,950 19 68,993 20 
Africa and Middle East 6,283 2 7,201 2 
Asia-Pacific and Latin America 208,782 58 192,457 57 
NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES AT DECEMBER 31 359,567 100 340,443 100 

FInAnCIAL InF orMATIon
Consolidated accounts
328
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT5Note 30  Off‑balance sheet commitments
Off‑balance sheet commitments relating to  
Group operating activities
A)  Commitments given on operating contracts
The Group has provided performance and/or financial guarantees 
for a number of major contracts.
Hence, certain clients enjoy limited financial guarantees issued 
by the Group and totaling €1,674 million at December 31, 2023.
Furthermore, bank guarantees on operational contracts borne by 
the Group are totaling €231 million at December 31, 2023.
B)  Commitments given on leases
Commitments given on leases consist primarily of the non -lease 
components of the Group’s leases and commitments under leases 
with a short term or of assets with a low value (except IT equipment). 
These commitments total €207 million at December 31, 2023.
C)  Other commitments given
Other commitments given total €70 million at December 31, 2023 
and mainly comprise standard vendor warranties given on asset sales.
In the course of its activities, the Group may be required to contract 
firm purchase commitments for solutions and services with certain 
suppliers at market prices.
D)  Other commitments received
Other commitments received total €81 million at December 31, 2023 
and comprise in particular commitments received following takeovers 
and the purchase of shares held by certain minority shareholders.
Off‑balance sheet commitments relating to  
Group financing
A)  Bonds
Capgemini SE has committed to standard obligations in respect 
of the outstanding bond issues detailed in Note 22 – Net debt/net cash and cash equivalents, and particularly to maintain pari 
passu status  with all other marketable bonds that may be issued 
by the Company.
B)  Syndicated credit facility obtained by Capgemini SE 
and not drawn to date
The syndicated credit facility agreement disclosed in Note 22 – Net  
debt/net cash and cash equivalents also includes covenants restricting 
Capgemini SE and its subsidiaries’ ability to carry out certain 
transactions for example, pledging assets as collateral, disposal 
of assets and mergers and similar transactions. Capgemini SE is 
also committed to standard obligations, including an agreement 
to maintain pari passu status .
C)  Bilateral facilities obtained by Capgemini SE and 
not drawn to date
The bilateral facilities disclosed in Note 22 – Net debt/net  
cash and cash equivalents also includes covenants restricting  
Capgemini SE and its subsidiaries’ ability to carry out certain 
transactions for example, pledging assets as collateral, disposal 
of assets and mergers and similar transactions. Capgemini SE is 
also committed to standard obligations, including an agreement 
to maintain pari passu status .
Contingent liabilities
In the normal course of their activities, certain Group companies 
underwent tax audits, leading in some cases to revised assessments 
in 2023 and in previous fiscal years.
Proposed adjustments were challenged and litigation and 
pre-litigation proceedings were in progress on December 31, 2023. 
This is particularly the case in India, where Group subsidiaries 
have received several tax reassessment notices or proposed tax 
reassessment notices for income tax, particularly on a recurring 
basis on transfer pricing issues.
Most often, no amounts have been booked for these disputes in the 
consolidated financial statements in so far as the Group considers 
it can justify its positions with serious likelihood of winning.

FInAnCIAL InF orMATIon
Consolidated accounts
329
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI5Note 31  Related -party transactions
Associates
Associates are equity -accounted companies over which the Group 
exercises significant influence. Transactions with these associates 
in 2023 were performed at arm’s length and were of immaterial 
volume.
Other related -parties
In 2023, no material transactions were carried out with:
 —  shareholders holding significant voting rights in the share 
capital of Capgemini SE;  —  members of management, including Directors; 
 —  entities controlled or jointly controlled by a member of Group 
Management, or over which he/she has significant influence 
or holds significant voting rights.
Group Management compensation
The table below provides a breakdown of the 2022 and 2023 
compensation of members of management bodies comprising 
members of Group Management present at each year -end 
(38 members in 2023 and 29 in 2022) and Directors.
(in thousands of euros) 2022 2023 
Short -term benefits excluding employer payroll taxes (1) 30,010 37,439 
o/w remuneration for director duties (2) paid to salaried Directors 171 221 
o/w remuneration for director duties (2) paid to non‑salaried Directors (3) and (4)  954 1,198 
Short -term benefits: employer payroll taxes 8,570 11,879 
Post -employment benefits  (5) 2,605 3,190 
Share -based payment (6) 17,037 24,492 
(1) Including gross wages and salaries, bonuses, profit -sharing, fees and benefits in kind.
(2) Previously known as attendance fees.
(3) Note that Aiman Ezzat has waived receipt of this remuneration since his nomination by the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 20, 2020.
(4) 16 active Directors in 2022 and 15 active Directors in 2023.
(5) Primarily the annualized expense in respect of retirement termination payments pursuant to a contract and/or a collective bargaining agreement.
(6) Deferred recognition of the annualized expense relating to the grant of performance shares.
Note 32  Subsequent events
At the Shareholders’ Meeting, the Board of Directors will recommend a dividend payout to Capgemini SE shareholders of 3.40 per share 
in respect of 2023. A dividend of €3.25 per share was paid in respect of fiscal year 2022.

FInAnCIAL InF orMATIon
Consolidated accounts
330
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT5Note 33  List of the main consolidated companies by country
Capgemini SE is the parent company of what is generally known as “the Capgemini group” comprising 191 companies. The main 
consolidated companies at December 31, 2023 are listed below.
Country List of the main companies consolidated at December 31, 2023 % interestConsolidation 
Method  (1) 
ArGen TInA Capgemini Argentina S.A. 100% FC
Aus TrALIA Capgemini Australia Pty Ltd. 100% FC
AusTrIA Capgemini Consulting Österreich AG 100% FC
BeLGIu M Capgemini Belgium N.V./S.A. 100% FC
BrAZIL Capgemini Brasil LTDA 100% FC
CAn AdA Capgemini Canada Inc. 100% FC
Capgemini Solutions Canada Inc. 100% FC
ChIn A Capgemini (China) Co., Ltd. 100% FC
Capgemini Business Services (China) Ltd. 100% FC
Capgemini Hong Kong Ltd. 100% FC
den MArK Capgemini Danmark A/S 100% FC
FInLA nd Capgemini Finland Oy 100% FC
FrAnCe Capgemini Consulting S.A.S. 100% FC
Capgemini Engineering Research and Development S.A.S. 100% FC
Capgemini France S.A.S. 100% FC
Capgemini Gouvieux S.A.S. 100% FC
Capgemini Latin America S.A.S. 100% FC
Capgemini Service S.A.S. 100% FC
Capgemini Technology Services S.A.S. 100% FC
Altran Technologies S.A.S. 100% FC
Global Management Treasury Services S.N.C. 100% FC
Capgemini Engineering ACT S.A.S 100% FC
Altran Technology & Engineering Center SAS 100% FC
Sogeti S.A.S. 100% FC
Ger MAnY Capgemini Deutschland GmbH 100% FC
Capgemini Deutschland Holding GmbH 100% FC
Capgemini Outsourcing Services GmbH 100% FC
Capgemini Engineering Deutschland S.A.S. & Co. KG 100% FC
GuATeMALA Capgemini Business Services Guatemala S.A. 100% FC
Ind IA Capgemini Technology Services India Ltd. 99.55% FC
Altran Technologies India Pvt. Ltd. 99.55% FC
IreLAnd Capgemini Ireland Ltd. 100% FC
ITALY Capgemini Italia S.p.A. 100% FC
Capgemini Finance TECH Srl 100% FC
JAPAn Capgemini Japan K.K. 100% FC
LuXeMBourG Capgemini Reinsurance International S.A. 100% FC
Sogeti Luxembourg S.A. 100% FC
MALAY sIA Capgemini Services Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. 100% FC
MeXICo Capgemini México S. de R.L. de C.V. 100% FC
MoroCC o Capgemini Technology Services Maroc S.A. 100% FC

FInAnCIAL InF orMATIon
Consolidated accounts
331
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI5Country List of the main companies consolidated at December 31, 2023 % interestConsolidation 
Method  (1) 
neTher LAnds Capgemini Educational Services B.V. 100% FC
Capgemini NV 100% FC
Altran International BV 100% FC
Capgemini Nederland BV 100% FC
Sogeti Nederland BV 100% FC
nor WAY Capgemini Norge AS 100% FC
PoLA nd Capgemini Polska Sp. z.o.o. 100% FC
PorTuGAL Capgemini Portugal S.A. 100% FC
sInGAPore Capgemini Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd. 100% FC
Capgemini Singapore Pte. Ltd. 100% FC
sPAIn Capgemini España S.L. 100% FC
sWeden Capgemini AB 100% FC
Capgemini Engineering Sverige AB 100% FC
Capgemini Sverige AB 100% FC
Sogeti Sverige AB 100% FC
sWITZer LAnd Capgemini Suisse S.A. 100% FC
unIT ed KIn GdoM Capgemini UK Plc 100% FC
CGS Holdings Ltd. 100% FC
Altran UK Holding Ltd. 100% FC
Cambridge Consultants Limited 100% FC
unITed sTAT es Capgemini America, Inc. 100% FC
Capgemini Government Solutions LLC 100% FC
Capgemini North America, Inc. 100% FC
(1) FC = Full consolidation.
Note 34  Audit fees
Statutory audit fees for fiscal year 2023 break down as follows:
(in million of euros) (excluding taxes)PwC Mazars
2022 2023  2022 2023  
Statutory audit of the consolidated and  
separate financial statements 48 47 46 43 
 —  Capgemini SE 0.7 0.6 0.6 0.4 
 —  Fully -consolidated subsidiaries 4.1 4.1 4.0 3.9 
Non -audit services  (1) 06 06 02 03 
TOTAL 54 53 48 46 
(1) These fees mainly concern sustainability procedures, due diligence and technical consultations.

FInAnCIAL InF orMATIon
Consolidated accounts
332
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT5527  Statutory auditors’ report on the consolidated financial statements
This is a translation into English of the Statutory auditors’ report on the consolidated financial statements of the Company issued in French and 
it is provided solely for the convenience of English speaking users.
This Statutory auditors’ report includes information required by European regulation and French law, such as information about the appointment 
of the Statutory auditors or verification of the information concerning the Group presented in the management report and other documents 
provided to shareholders.
This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional auditing standards applicable 
in France.
For the year ended December 31, 2023
To the Annual General Meeting of Capgemini SE,
Opinion
In compliance with the engagement entrusted to us by your Annual General Meeting, we have audited the accompanying consolidated 
financial statements of Capgemini SE (“the Group”) for the year ended December 31, 2023.
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets and liabilities and of the financial position 
of the Group as at December 31, 2023 and of the results of its operations for the year then ended in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European Union.
The audit opinion expressed above is consistent with our report to the Audit and Risk Committee.
Basis for opinion
Audit framework
We conducted our audit in accordance with professional standards applicable in France. We believe that the audit evidence we have 
obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Statutory auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the 
Consolidated Financial Statements Section of our report.
Independence
We conducted our audit engagement in compliance with independence requirements of the French Commercial Code ( Code de commerce ) 
and the French Code of Ethics ( Code de déontologie ) for Statutory auditors, for the period from January 1st, 2023 to the date of our 
report and specifically we did not provide any prohibited non -audit services referred to in Article 5 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 537/2014 
or in the French Code of Ethics ( Code de déontologie ) for Statutory auditors.
Justification of assessments – Key Audit Matters
In accordance with the requirements of Articles L. 821 -53 and R. 821 -180 of the French Commercial Code ( Code de commerce ) relating 
to the justification of our assessments, we inform you of the key audit matters relating to risks of material misstatement that, in our 
professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the consolidated financial statements of the current period, as well 
as how we addressed those risks.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the consolidated financial statements as a whole and in forming our opinion 
thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on specific items of the consolidated financial statements.

FInAnCIAL InF orMATIon
Consolidated accounts
333
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI5Revenue recognition on a percentage‑of‑completion basis for long‑term contracts on deliverable‑based, 
services -based or multi -deliverable contracts
Risks identified
Capgemini is present in the consulting, digital transformation, 
Technology and Engineering Services market and notably provides 
long -term services.
As described in Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements, the 
method used to recognize revenue related to long -term contracts 
depends on the nature of the services rendered, as follows:
 —  revenue from deliverable -based contracts is usually 
recognized over time by using the “cost -to-cost” method 
to measure progress to completion. The percentage of 
completion is based on costs incurred to date relative to the 
total estimate of cost at completion of the contract; 
 —  revenue on services -based contracts is usually recognized as 
rights to bill arise; 
 —  revenue on multi -deliverable contracts is usually recognized 
depending on the performance obligations identified.
The amount of revenue to be recognized for the period depends 
upon the Group’s ability to:
 —  identify all the performance obligations in multi -year and 
multi -deliverable contracts and determine their related 
accounting treatment; 
 —  measure the costs incurred for deliverable -based contracts 
or the total services rendered for services -based contracts; 
 —  estimate the costs to be incurred until the end of those 
contracts.
Considering the judgments and estimates made by the 
Management to determine how revenue should be recognized 
on a percentage -of-completion basis, we deemed the recognition 
of revenue related to long -term contracts on deliverable -based, 
services -based or multi -deliverable contracts to be a key matter 
in our audit.our audit approach
We have updated our understanding of the process related to 
recognizing various revenue flows, notably long -term contracts on 
deliverable -based, services -based or multi -deliverable contracts.
Our approach took into account the information systems used in 
recognizing revenue on a percentage -of-completion basis by testing, 
with the assistance of our IT specialists, the effectiveness of the 
automatic controls for systems impacting revenue recognition.
Our work notably involved:
 —  assessing internal control procedures, identifying the most 
relevant manual or automatic controls for our audit and 
testing their design and operational efficiency; 
 —  carrying out analytical audit procedures, and notably 
analyzing material changes in revenue and margin from one 
period to another; 
 —  based on a sample of contracts selected by using a 
multi -criteria analysis :
 –  assessing the performance obligations identified within 
the context of the contract,
 –  assessing the method used to recognize revenue for 
each identified performance obligation,
 –  comparing the accounting data against the operational 
monitoring of projects and assessing the reasonableness 
of the estimates used, particularly as regards to 
measuring costs to be incurred until the end of the 
contract;
 —  assessing the appropriateness of the information provided in 
the notes to the consolidated financial statements.

FInAnCIAL InF orMATIon
Consolidated accounts
334
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT5Measurement of recoverable amount of goodwill
Risks identified
As part of its business development, the Group makes targeted 
acquisitions in order to expand its service offering. In the context 
of the purchase price allocation, the Group estimates the fair value 
of identifiable assets acquired, liabilities and contingent liabilities 
assumed for entities newly acquired, and recognizes goodwill as 
an asset in the consolidated financial statements.
Goodwill corresponds to the difference between the purchase price 
and the net amount of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities 
and contingent liabilities assumed. Goodwill is allocated to the 
relevant cash generated units.
As of December 31, 2023, goodwill amounts to €11,213m (net 
value) and represents circa  45% of the total assets.
At least once a year, Management ensures that the net carrying 
amount of goodwill recognized as an asset is not greater than the 
recoverable amount. Indeed, an adverse change in the business 
activities to which goodwill has been allocated, due to internal or 
external factors such as the financial and economic environment 
in markets where Capgemini operates, may have a significant 
adverse effect on the recoverable amount of goodwill and require 
the recognition of impairment. In such a case, it is necessary to 
reassess the relevance and reasonableness of the assumptions used 
to determine the recoverable amounts and the reasonableness 
and consistency of the calculation method.
The impairment testing methods and details of the assumptions used 
are described in Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements.
We believe that measurement of recoverable amount of goodwill 
is a key audit matter, due to the significant amount of goodwill 
reported in the financial statements and its sensitivity to the 
assumptions made by Management.our audit approach
Our work entailed:
 —  gaining an understanding of and assessing the impairment 
testing process implemented by Management; 
 —  assessing the appropriateness of the model used to calculate 
value in use; 
 —  analyzing the consistency of cash flow forecasts with 
Management’s latest estimates presented to the Board of 
Directors; 
 —  comparing 2023 earnings forecasts used for prior year 
impairment testing with actual results; 
 —  comparing the cash flow forecasts for financial years 2024 to 
2028 with the business plans used for prior year impairment 
testing; 
 —  interviewing financial and/or operational staff responsible for 
the main geographic areas to analyze the main assumptions 
used in the strategic plan and corroborate the assumptions 
with the explanations obtained; 
 —  assessing the methods used to calculate discount rates 
applied to the estimated cash flows expected, as well 
as long -term growth rates used to project the last year 
expected cash flows to infinity; comparing these rates with 
market data and external sources and recalculating the rates 
based on our own data sources; 
 —  assessing the sensitivity of value in use to a change in the 
main assumptions used by Management; 
 —  assessing the appropriateness of the financial information 
provided in Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements.
Our valuation specialists were involved in this work.

FInAnCIAL InF orMATIon
Consolidated accounts
335
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI5Specific verifications
We have also performed, in accordance with professional standards applicable in France, the specific verification required by laws and 
regulations of the Group’s information given in the management report of the Board of Directors.
We have no matters to report as to their fair presentation and their consistency with the consolidated financial statements.
We attest that the consolidated non -financial statement required by Article L. 225 -102-1 of the French Commercial Code ( Code de 
commerce ) is included in the Group’s information given in the management report, it being specified that, in accordance with Article 
L. 823 -10 of this Code, we have verified neither the fair presentation nor the consistency with the consolidated financial statements of 
the information contained therein. This information should be reported on by an independent third party.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
Format of the presentation of the consolidated financial statements intended to be included in the  
Annual Financial r eport
We also verified, in accordance with professional standards for statutory audit procedures to be carried out on parent company and 
consolidated financial statements presented in the single electronic reporting format, that the presentation of consolidated financial 
statements included in the Annual Financial Report referred to in Section I of Article L. 451 -1-2 of the French Monetary and Financial 
Code, prepared under the responsibility of the Chief Executive Officer, complies with the format specified in Commission Delegated 
Regulation (EU) 2019/815 of 17 December 2018. With regard to consolidated financial statements, our work includes verifying that the 
tagging in the statements complies with the format specified in the aforementioned regulation.
Based on our work, we conclude that the presentation of the consolidated financial statements to be included in the Annual Financial 
Report complies, in all material aspects, with the single electronic reporting format.
Due to the technical limitations inherent to the block -tagging of the consolidated financial statements according to the European 
single electronic format, the content of certain tags of the notes may not be rendered identically to the accompanying consolidated 
financial statements.
It is not our responsibility to verify that the consolidated financial statements that will be effectively included by your company in the 
Annual Financial Report filed with the AMF correspond to those on which we have performed our work.
Appointment of the s tatutory auditors
We were appointed as Statutory auditors of Capgemini SE by the Annual General Meeting held on May 24, 1996 for PricewaterhouseCoopers 
Audit and on May 20, 2020 for Mazars.
As at December 31, 2023, PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit and Mazars were in the 28th year and fourth year of total uninterrupted 
engagement respectively.
Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged with Governance for the Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the consolidated financial statements in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European Union and for such internal control as management 
determines is necessary to enable the preparation of consolidated financial statements that are free from material misstatement, 
whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the consolidated financial statements, management is responsible for assessing the Company’s ability to continue as a 
going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless it is 
expected to liquidate the Company or to cease operations.
The Audit and Risk Committee is responsible for monitoring the financial reporting process and the effectiveness of internal control 
and risks management systems and where applicable, its internal audit, regarding the accounting and financial reporting procedures.
The consolidated financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors.
Statutory Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements
objectives and audit approach
Our role is to issue a report on the consolidated financial statements. Our objective is to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the 
consolidated financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, 
but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with professional standards will always detect a material misstatement 
when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could 
reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these consolidated financial statements.
As specified in Article L. 821 -55 of the French Commercial Code ( Code de commerce ), our statutory audit does not include assurance on 
the viability of the Company or the quality of management of the affairs of the Company.

FInAnCIAL InF orMATIon
Consolidated accounts
336
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT5As part of an audit conducted in accordance with professional standards applicable in France, the statutory auditor exercises professional 
judgment throughout the audit and furthermore:
 —  identifies and assesses the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, 
designs and performs audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtains audit evidence considered to be sufficient and 
appropriate to provide a basis for his opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than 
for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of 
internal control; 
 —  obtains an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the 
circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the internal control; 
 —  evaluates the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures 
made by management in the consolidated financial statements; 
 —  assesses the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence 
obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Company’s 
ability to continue as a going concern. This assessment is based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of his audit report. 
however, future events or conditions may cause the Company to cease to continue as a going concern. If the statutory auditor 
concludes that a material uncertainty exists, there is a requirement to draw attention in the audit report to the related disclosures 
in the consolidated financial statements or, if such disclosures are not provided or inadequate, to modify the opinion expressed 
therein; 
 —  evaluates the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements and assesses whether these statements represent the 
underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation; 
 —  obtains sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the 
Group to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. The statutory auditor is responsible for the direction, 
supervision and performance of the audit of the consolidated financial statements and for the opinion expressed on these 
consolidated financial statements.
Report to the Audit and Risk Committee
We submit a report to the Audit and Risk Committee which includes in particular a description of the scope of the audit and the audit 
program implemented, as well as the results of our audit. We also report, if any, significant deficiencies in internal control regarding 
the accounting and financial reporting procedures that we have identified.
Our report to the Audit and Risk Committee includes the risks of material misstatement that, in our professional judgment, were of 
most significance in the audit of the consolidated financial statements of the current period and which are therefore the key audit 
matters that we are required to describe in this report.
We also provide the Audit and Risk Committee with the declaration provided for in Article 6 of Regulation (EU) N° 537/2014, confirming 
our independence within the meaning of the rules applicable in France such as they are set in particular by Articles L. 821 -27 to L. 821 -34 of 
the French Commercial Code ( Code de commerce ) and in the French Code of Ethics ( Code de déontologie ) for Statutory auditors. Where 
appropriate, we discuss with the Audit and Risk Committee the risks that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, 
and the related safeguards.
The s tatutory auditors
Neuilly -sur-Seine and Courbevoie, February 19, 2024
Mazars PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit
Dominique Muller
PartnerAnne-Laure Rousselou
PartnerItto El Hariri
PartnerRomain Dumont
Partner

FInAnCIAL InF orMATIon
Comments on the Capgemini SE financial statements
337
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI553  Comments on the Capgemini SE  
financial statements
531 Income Statement
The Company reported operating income  for the year ended 
December 31, 2023 of €675 million (including €441 million in 
royalties received from subsidiaries) compared with €646 million 
last year (including €428 million in royalties).
Operating profit  is €318 million, compared with €315 million in 2022.
Net financial income  is €534 million (compared with €177 million 
in 2022) and reflects the difference between:
 —  income of €1,278  million, mainly comprising dividends 
received from subsidiaries (€431  million), foreign exchange 
gains on the pooling of currency risk at Group level 
(€405  million), reversals of provisions for foreign exchange 
losses (€204 million) and equity interests (€121 million), bank 
interest (€54  million) and income from loans granted to 
subsidiaries (€34 million); 
 —  expenses of €744  million, mainly comprising foreign 
exchange losses (€378  million) and charges to provisions 
for foreign exchange losses (€132 million) on the pooling of currency risk at Group level, interest on bond issues and bank 
borrowings (€172 million) and interest on Group borrowings 
including cash pooling (€55 million).
This €357 million increase in net financial income year -on-year is 
mainly due to the change in provisions and reversals of provisions 
for foreign exchange losses (€252 million) and the change in net 
provisions for equity interests (€151 million) partially offset by the 
decrease in foreign exchange gains and losses on the pooling of 
currency risk at Group level (€46 million).
non-recurring items  mainly comprise the accelerated depreciation 
of company acquisition costs and the capital gain realized on the 
disposal of Altran Technologies India securities and represent a net 
expense of €6 million compared to €8 million last year.
After an income tax expense  of €42 million (compared with 
€54 million in 2022), notably reflecting the income tax expense of 
the tax consolidation Group, the Company reported a net profit  
of €805 million.
532 Balance sheet
Financial fixed assets  decreased from €23,059 million last year to 
€22,702 million at December 31, 2023. This €357 million decrease 
is mainly attributable to:
 —  the fall in amounts receivable from controlled entities of 
€832  million, mainly corresponding to repayments net of 
new loans granted to European subsidiaries of €829 million; 
 —  share capital increases by subsidiaries in the Asia-Pacific 
region (€338 million) and Europe (€57 million);
 —  net reversals of provisions for equity interests (€115 million).
shareholders’ equity  is €15,176 million, up €22 million on last year. 
This increase essentially reflects the difference between:
 —  net profit for 2023 (€805 million); 
 —  the share capital increase for cash reserved for employees 
(ESOP 2023) of €465 million, net of issue costs;  —  the cancelation of 4,174,000  shares in the amount of 
€697 million; 
 —  and the June 1, 2023 dividend payment of €3.25 per share on 
the 171,942,308 shares making up the Company’s share capital 
at June 1, 2023 (after neutralization of the 1,639,805 treasury 
shares held by the Company), representing a total payment 
of €559 million.
Borrowings  totaled €8,651 million at December 31, 2023, down 
€1,265 million compared with December 31, 2022. This decrease 
was mainly due to:
 —  the repayment of the 2015 bond issue on July  3, 2023 for 
€1,000 million; 
 —  a decrease in credit positions on bank accounts used in 
connection with the Group’s worldwide cash pooling 
arrangements for €254 million.
In addition to the above, the following information is required by law:
Accounts payable at December 31 by due date
 > 60 days
(in thousand of euros)number of  
invoices Y-1number of  
invoices Y Y–1 Y
External accounts payable past due(1) 1 7 46 48
Group accounts payable past due 0 0 0 0
Total 1 7 46 48
% of purchases   0,044% 0,042%
(1) Accounts payable past due mainly concern disputed invoices.

FInAnCIAL InF orMATIon
Comments on the Capgemini SE financial statements
338
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT5Accounts receivable at December 31 by due date
 > 30 days > 60 days Total Y
(in thousand of euros)number of 
invoices Y-1number of 
invoices Y Y-1 Y Y–1 Y Y
Non-Group accounts receivable 
past due 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Group receivable past due 3 4 457 5 0 148 154
Total 3 4 457 5 0 148 154
% of revenues   0.07% 0.00% 0.00% 0.02% 0.02%
533 Appropriation of earnings
During its meeting of February 13, 2024, the Board of Directors decided to recommend to the next Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting, 
the following appropriation of net profit for the year:
Net profit for the year €804,593,226.11
Allocation to the legal reserve €0.00
i.e. a balance of €804,593,226.11
Retained earnings of previous years €5,918,652,792.96
i.e. Distributable earnings at 12/31/2023 of €6,723,246,019.07
This amount will be allocated to:  
 —  payment of a dividend of €3.40 per share (1) €586,867,584.20
 —  retained earnings for the balance €6,136,378,434.87
Giving a total of: €6,723,246,019.07
(1) The total amount of the distribution is calculated based on the number of shares ranking for dividends at December 31, 2023 and could therefore change if this number 
varies between January 1, 2024 and the ex -dividend date.
This dividend of €3.40 on each of the 172,608,113 shares bearing 
dividend rights on January 1, 2024, will be eligible for the 40% tax 
rebate referred to in Article 158.3.2° of the French Tax Code ( Code 
général des impôts ) for private individuals tax -resident in France 
who opt for taxation at the progressive income tax scale. Where 
this option is not made, the dividend will fall within the application 
scope of the flat -rate income tax advance payment mechanism and 
will not be eligible for this 40% rebate.The ex -dividend date will be May 29, 2024 and the dividend will 
be payable from May 31, 2024. If, at the time of payment of the 
dividend, the number of treasury shares held by the Company has 
changed compared to that held on December 31, 2023, the fraction 
of the dividend relating to this variation will either increase or 
reduce retained earnings.
Pursuant to Article 243 bis of the French Tax Code, it is recalled that the following amounts were paid in respect of the past three fiscal 
years:
 dividend  
distribution  (1)  
(in euros)  distributed  
income  (2)  
(in euros)  dividend  
per share  
(in euros)  
Fiscal year 2022 564 141 867,25 558 812 501,00 3,25
Fiscal year 2021 413 739 657,60 408 433 627,20 2,40
Fiscal year 2020 329 130 432,15 328 497 563,55 1,95
 (1) Theoretical values calculated based on the number of shares bearing dividend rights on December 31 each year.
 (2) Amounts effectively paid after adjusting the number of shares bearing dividend rights for any change in the number of treasury shares, the issuance of new shares and/or 
the cancelation of existing shares between January 1 and the ex -dividend date. In fiscal years 2020, 2021 and 2022, these amounts were only fully eligible for the 40% tax 
rebate referred to in Article 158.3.2° of the French Tax Code ( Code général des impôts ) when the beneficiary was tax -resident in France and had opted for taxation at the 
progressive income tax scale.

FInAnCIAL InF orMATIon
Comments on the Capgemini SE financial statements
339
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI5534 Share capital and ownership structure
At December 31, 2023, the share capital amounted to €1,380,864,904 
(compared with €1,388,656,904 at December 31, 2022), divided 
into 172,608,113 fully paid -up shares with a par value of €8 each.
The following share capital transactions were performed in 2023: —  share capital increase under the tenth employee share 
ownership plan (ESOP 2023) involving the issue of 
3,200,000 shares on December 19, 2023;
 —  cancelation on December  19, 2023 of 4,174,000  treasury 
shares by decision of the Board of Directors on December 6, 
2023. 
In accordance with Article L. 233 -7 and L. 233 -9 of the French Commercial Code, the Company was notified that the following legal 
thresholds were crossed between January 1 and December 31, 2023:
shareholderdate threshold 
crossednumber of 
shares% share  
capitalnumber of 
voting rights% voting  
rightsLegal 
threshold 
crosseddirection 
(above/below)
BlackRock, Inc. 01/11/2023 8,410,823 4.85% 8,410,823 4.85% 5% Below
01/23/2023 8,833,033 5.09% 8,833,033 5.09% 5% Above
01/30/2023 8,524,960 4.91% 8,524,960 4.91% 5% Below
02/06/2023 8,716,638 5.02% 8,716,638 5.02% 5% Above
03/10/2023 8,669,203 4.99% 8,669,203 4.99% 5% Below
03/13/2023 8,703,299 5.01% 8,703,299 5.01% 5% Above
03/14/2023 8,577,871 4.94% 8,577,871 4.94% 5% Below
03/20/2023 8,679,716 5.0004% 8,679,716 5.0004% 5% Above
03/21/2023 8,659,355 4.99% 8,659,355 4.99% 5% Below
03/23/2023 8,706,065 5.02% 8,706,065 5.02% 5% Above
03/24/2023 8,663,619 4.99% 8,663,619 4.99% 5% Below
03/27/2023 8,704,334 5.01% 8,704,334 5.01% 5% Above
07/14/2023 8,669,372 4.99% 8,669,372 4.99% 5% Below
07/17/2023 8,805,681 5.07% 8,805,681 5.07% 5% Above
07/18/2023 8,652,022 4.98% 8,652,022 4.98% 5% Below
Massachusetts 
Financial Services 
Company (MFS)09/15/2023 8,686,756 5.004% 8,686,756 5.004% 5% Above
09/18/2023 8,678,388 4.99% 8,678,388 4.99% 5% Below
09/19/2023 8,755,372 5.04% 8,755,372 5.04% 5% Above
The Capital Group 
Companies, Inc.02/14/2023 8,720,732 5.02% 8,720,732 5.02% 5% Above

FInAnCIAL InF orMATIon
Comments on the Capgemini SE financial statements
340
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT5Pursuant to the provisions of Article L. 233 -13 of the French Code of 
Commerce and according to information received and disclosures 
made to the French Financial Markets Authority (AMF), as far as 
the Company is aware, no shareholders other than Amundi Asset 
Management, Crédit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank 
(CACIB), FMR LLC, Massachusetts Financial Services Company (MFS) 
and The Capital Group Companies Inc., hold directly or indirectly, 
alone or in concert, more than 5% of the Company’s share capital 
or voting rights.
Amundi Asset Management, acting on behalf of funds under 
management, disclosed it had increased its interest above the 5% 
share capital and voting rights thresholds on December 17, 2020 
and held on behalf of such funds, 9,610,752 shares representing 
5.69% of the Company’s share capital and voting rights at that date.
It is also noted that Amundi Asset Management is notably responsible 
for managing the Capgemini ESOP FCPE (the Capgemini Employee 
(1) Following the repeal of the so-called “trading” exception due to the enactment into French law of the revised Transparency Directive 2013/50/EU by Order no. 2015-1576 of 
December 3, 2015, service providers must include in their threshold crossing disclosures certain agreements or financial instruments deemed to have an economic effect 
similar to the ownership of shares, irrespective of whether they are settled in shares or cash (e.g. forward purchases with physical settlement).Savings Mutual Fund set up for employee share ownership 
transactions).
Similarly, Crédit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank disclosed 
it had decreased its interest below the 10% share capital and voting 
rights threshold in the Company on June 9, 2022 and held 8.02% of 
the share capital and voting rights of the Company, including 6.99% 
in respect of derivatives and 0.87% in respect of guarantees (1). CACIB 
acted as the structuring bank for the most recent Group employee 
share ownership transactions (including the latest share capital 
increase on December 19, 2023). Implementation of the leveraged 
and secure offers requires the financial institution structuring 
the offer to enter into on and off -market hedging transactions, 
by buying and/or selling shares, share purchase options and/or all 
other transactions throughout the duration of the transactions.
Finally, shares held by members of the Board of Directors represent 
0.19% of the Company’s share capital at December 31, 2023.

FInAnCIAL InF orMATIon
2023 Financial statements
341
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI554 2023 Financial Statements
541 Balance sheet at December 31, 2022 and 2023
Asse Ts (in thousand of euros)12/31/2022 12/31/2023 
net Gross Depreciation, 
amortization and 
provisions Net 
Intangible assets     
Trademarks, patents and similar rights 2,371 41,166 (38,798) 2,368 
Property, plant and equipment 243 243 (6) 237 
Financial fixed assets     
Equity interests 21,541,328 22,647,327 (610,971) 22,036,356 
Receivable from controlled entities (1) 1,341,059 508,838 - 508,838 
Other financial fixed assets (1) 176,130 156,683 - 156,683 
Non-current assets 23,061,131 23,354,258 (649,776) 22,704,482 
Advances and down -payments 84 - - - 
Bought -in goods 3 3 - 3 
Other receivables  (1) 86,169 121,449 - 121,449 
Receivable from related and associated 
companies  (1) 178,560 213,425 - 213,425 
Other debtors  (1) - 5 - 5 
Marketable securities 1,089,371 626,688 - 626,688 
Cash and cash equivalents 2,641,517 1,841,127 (600) 1,840,527 
Current assets 3,995,705 2,802,697 (600) 2,802,097 
Prepaid expenses (1) 25,069 19,198 - 19,198 
Deferred charges 21,282 16,954 - 16,954 
Unrealized foreign exchange losses 203,525 132,735 - 132,735 
Other assets 249,876 168,887 - 168,887 
TOTAL ASSETS 27,306,712 26,325,842 (650,376) 25,675,466 
(1) Of which receivable within one year 586,885 535,507 ‑ 535,507 

FInAnCIAL InF orMATIon
2023 Financial statements
342
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT5shAreho Lders ’ eQuITY A nd LIABILITI es (in thousand of euros) 12/31/2022 12/31/2023 
Share capital (fully paid -up) 1,388,657 1,380,865 
Additional paid -in capital 6,548,412 6,324,159 
Legal reserve 137,745 138,866 
Other reserves 559,573 559,573 
Retained earnings 6,048,794 5,918,653 
Profit for the year 429,792 804,593 
Tax-driven provisions 41,180 49,663 
Shareholders’ equity 15,154,153 15,176,371 
Provisions for contingencies and losses 203,525 135,182 
Bond issues (2) 6,700,000 5,700,000 
Bank loans and borrowings (2) 1,721,960 1,383,900 
Payable to controlled entities (2) 1,494,220 1,567,104 
Borrowings  (2) 9,916,180 8,651,004 
Accounts and notes payable (2) 9,144 5,117 
Tax and social security liabilities (2) 2,860 2,291 
Payable to related and associated companies (2) 1,617,211 1,416,980 
Other payables (2) 1,565 1,230 
Unrealized foreign exchange gains 402,073 287,290 
Other liabilities 2,032,854 1,712,908 
TOTAL SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 27,306,712 25,675,466 
(2) Of which due within one year 5,739,889 4,834,196 

FInAnCIAL InF orMATIon
2023 Financial statements
343
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI5542 Income Statement for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2023
(in thousand of euros) 2022 2023 
Royalties 428,271 441,080 
Reversals of depreciation, amortization and provisions, expense transfers 299 1,097 
Other income 217,289 233,215 
Total operating revenue 645,859 675,392 
Other purchases and external charges 104,771 116,191 
Taxes, duties and other levies 3,768 2,634 
Depreciation and amortization 5,134 5,435 
Other expenses 217,217 232,777 
Total operating expenses 330,890 357,037 
OPERATING PROFIT 314,969 318,355 
Investment income  (1) 434,975 431,417 
Income from other marketable securities and amounts receivable on non -current assets (1) 21,810 33,931 
Other interest and similar income (1) 15,614 56,202 
Reversals of provisions 27,679 333,674 
Foreign exchange gains 494,207 404,983 
Net proceeds on disposals of marketable securities 439 18,302 
Total financial income 994,723 1,278,509 
Depreciation, amortization and provisions relating to financial items 253,484 138,868 
Interest and similar expenses (2) 141,107 227,065 
Foreign exchange losses 421,475 378,120 
Expenses on disposals of marketable securities 1,589 - 
Total financial expenses 817,656 744,052 
NET FINANCIAL INCOME (EXPENSE) 177,067 534,457 
RECURRING PROFIT BEFORE TAX 492,036 852,812 
Non -recurring income from capital transactions 3,918 23,499 
Total non -recurring income 3,918 23,499 
Non -recurring expenses on operations 709 1,778 
Non -recurring expenses on capital transactions 2,926 17,281 
Charges to provisions 8,489 10,930 
Total non -recurring expenses 12,125 29,989 
NET NON ‑RECURRING INCOME (EXPENSE) (8,207) (6,490) 
Income tax expense (54,038) (41,729) 
PROFIT FOR THE YEAR 429,792 804,593 
(1) Of which income concerning related companies 458,973 467,725 
(2) Of which interest concerning related companies 17,962 82,259 

FInAnCIAL InF orMATIon
2023 Financial statements
344
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT5543 Notes to the financial statements
I –  Accounting policies
The annual financial statements for the year ended December 31, 
2023 are prepared and presented in accordance with Regulations 
no. 20143 -03, no. 2015 -05, no. 2015 -06 and no. 2016 -07 issued by 
the French Accounting Standards Authority ( Autorité des normes 
comptables , ANC). They are also prepared in accordance with the 
principles of prudence and accruals, and assuming that the Company 
is able to continue as a going concern.
Items in the financial statements are generally measured using the 
historical cost method. The Company’s main accounting policies 
are described below:
Intangible assets
Computer software and user rights acquired on an unrestricted 
ownership basis, as well as software developed for internal use 
which has a positive, lasting and quantifiable effect on future 
results, are capitalized and amortized over a maximum period of 
three years. At the year -end, the value of computer software and 
user rights is compared to their value in use for the Company.
Financial fixed assets
Equity interests and other long -term investments are recognized 
at acquisition cost, including any related transaction fees. 
Capgemini SE remeasures these securities at each annual reporting 
date. The recoverable amount of equity interests and other 
long -term investments is determined based on their value in use, 
which is equal to the proportionate share of shareholders’ equity 
represented by the securities or discounted future cash flows 
adjusted for net debt and deferred tax. Cash flows are discounted 
using the weighted average cost of capital for the geographic zone 
where the subsidiary is located. Estimates are established based 
on information available at that time and may be revised if the 
underlying circumstances change.
Treasury shares
Treasury shares held by Capgemini SE as part of the liquidity contract 
are recorded on the balance sheet within long -term investments 
at the lower of cost and net realizable value. Realizable value is the 
average market price for Capgemini SE shares in December. Other 
treasury shares held for other objectives of the share buyback 
program are recorded in listed shares.
Marketable securities
Marketable securities are shown on the balance sheet at the lower 
of cost and net realizable value. The realizable value of listed 
securities is based on the average share price in December. The 
realizable value of unlisted securities is based on their net asset 
value. At the year -end, accrued interest receivable or interest 
received in advance on certificates of deposit and commercial paper 
is recognized in accrued income or prepaid income, respectively.
Capitalization contracts subscribed by the Company are also 
included in marketable securities.Foreign currency transactions
Receivables, payables and cash and cash equivalents denominated 
in foreign currencies are translated into euros at the year -end 
exchange rate or at the hedging rate. Any differences resulting 
from the translation of foreign currency receivables and payables 
at these rates are included in the balance sheet under “Unrealized 
foreign exchange gains/losses”. A provision for foreign exchange 
losses is set aside to cover any unrealized losses.
Receivables and payables
Receivables are measured at their nominal amount, and a provision 
for impairment set aside when their net realizable value falls below 
their net carrying amount.
Financial instruments
Currency and interest rate positions are taken using financial 
instruments presenting minimum counterparty risk listed on 
organized markets or over -the-counter. Gains and losses on financial 
instruments used in hedging transactions are recognized to match 
the gains and losses arising on the hedged items. Forward financial 
instruments, and options on own shares, are initially recognized in 
the balance sheet at acquisition cost and subsequently remeasured 
to fair value. Where there is indication of impairment, a provision 
for financial risk is set aside in accordance with the principle of 
prudence.
Centralized foreign currency hedging transactions are recognized in 
accordance with hedge accounting rules. Transactions not classified 
as hedges are recognized in isolated open positions. Any unrealized 
losses are provided. In addition the impact of hedging on inter-
Company loans and receivables is spread over the hedge term.
Tax consolidation
The Company and French subsidiaries at least 95% owned by the 
Group have elected to file consolidated tax returns pursuant to 
Article 223 A of the French General Tax Code. Any tax savings 
realized by the tax consolidation Group, primarily on account of 
tax losses incurred by consolidated entities, are treated as a gain 
for the Company in the period in which they arise.

FInAnCIAL InF orMATIon
2023 Financial statements
345
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI5II –  Notes to the Capgemini SE Balance Sheet and Income Statement
1  Non -current assets
(in thousand of euros)Gross value 
(January 1) Increase decreaseGross value 
(December 31)
Intangible assets     
Trademarks, patents and similar rights 41,166 - - 41,166
Sub -total 41,166 - - 41,166
Property, plant and equipment 243 - - 243
SUB‑TOTAL 243 ‑ ‑ 243
Financial fixed assets     
Equity interests 22,267,215 396,692 (16,580) 22,647,327
Receivable from controlled entities 1,341,059 628,235 (1,460,456) 508,838
Other financial fixed assets 176,130 977,146 (996,594) 156,683
Sub -total 23,784,405 2,002,073 (2,473,629) 23,312,848
TOTAL NON ‑CURRENT ASSETS 23,825,814 2,002,073 (2,473,629) 23,354,258
 —  equity interests
Equity interests comprise shares in the Company’s subsidiaries. 
The main changes during the year reflect share capital increases 
by French and non-French subsidiaries totaling €396,692 thousand 
and the disposal of securities of the subsidiary Altran Technologies 
India for €16,235 thousand.
 —  receivable from controlled entities
Amounts receivable from controlled entities consist of loans 
granted by the Company to subsidiaries primarily in Europe 
(€265,877 thousand), the Asia-Pacific region (€189,088 thousand) 
and Switzerland (€39,895 thousand).
The main changes in this heading reflect:
 —  loans granted to Asian-Pacific subsidiaries of 
€346,043 thousand;
 —  loans granted to European subsidiaries of € 259,673 thous and;
 —  loans granted to Swiss subsidiaries of €13,878 thousand;
 —  the repayment of loans granted to subsidiaries in Europe 
(€1,088,352  thousand, including €1,015,800  by Altran 
Technologies & GMTS) and the Asia-Pacific region 
(€363,324 thousand). —  Other financial fixed assets
This account mainly comprises treasury shares bought back 
for cancelation. These shares were purchased under the share 
buyback program approved by the Combined Shareholders’ 
Meeting of May 16, 2023. Accordingly, a total of 4,002,353 shares 
(€685,620 thousand) were acquired and 4,174,000 shares 
(€697,330 thousand) were canceled on December 19, 2023. At 
December 31, 2023, Capgemini SE held 802,353 treasury shares 
for cancelation, valued at €150,549 thousand.
This account also comprises treasury shares held under the liquidity 
contract. This contract also relates to the share buyback program 
approved by the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 16, 2023. 
Accordingly, a total of 1,713,144 shares (€291,526 thousand) were 
acquired and 1,768,353 shares (€299,263 thousand) were sold between 
January 1, 2023 and December 31, 2023. At December 31, 2023, 
Capgemini SE held 32,380 treasury shares (87,589 at December 31, 
2022), valued at €6,133 thousand.
2  Depreciation, amortization and provisions for non‑current assets
(in thousand of euros)depreciation, 
amortization 
and provisions 
(January 1) Charge reversalsdepreciation, 
amortization 
and provisions 
(December 31)
Intangible assets     
Amortization of trademarks, patents and similar rights 38,795 3 - 38,798
Property, plant and equipment     
Depreciation of computer equipment - 6 - 6
Financial fixed assets     
Provisions for equity interests 725,888 6,133 (121,049) 610,971
Provisions for amounts receivable from controlled entities  - - -
TOTAL DEPRECIATION,  
AMORTIZATION AND PROVISIONS 764,683 6,142 (121,049) 649,776
Charges to provisions for equity interests of €6,133 thousand and provision reversals of €121,049 thousand concern European subsidiaries.

FInAnCIAL InF orMATIon
2023 Financial statements
346
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT53  Marketable securities
Marketable securities break down as follows at December 31, 2023:
(in thousand of euros) nominal value net asset value Carrying amount
Listed securities    
Investment funds (FCP & SICAV) 550,207 550,207 550,207
Treasury shares 76,481 76,481 76,481
TOTAL 626,688 626,688 626,688
In 2023, the Company continued to purchase treasury shares, buying 1,216,562 shares (€200,721 thousand, including transaction fees). 
During the year, 1,363,887 shares were presented to beneficiaries of performance shares.
4  Maturity of receivables at year -end
(in thousand of euros) Grossone year  
or lessMore than  
one year
Non-current assets    
Receivable from controlled entities 508,838 40,833 468,005
Other financial fixed assets 156,683 156,683 -
Current assets    
Income tax receivable 110,355 110,355 -
VAT receivable 11,094 11,094 -
Receivable from related companies 213,425 213,425 -
Other debtors 5 5 -
Prepaid expenses 19,198 3,113 16,085
TOTAL 1,019,598 535,507 484,091
Prepaid expenses mainly comprise prepaid interest on the 2018 and 2020 bond issues.
5  Deferred charges
(in thousand of euros)Amount at 
January 1 IncreaseAmortization & 
decreaseAmount  
(at December 31) 
Loan issuance fees 21,282 1,097 (5,426) 16,954
TOTAL 21,282 1,097 (5,426) 16,954
Loan issuance fees mainly comprise the fees on two 2018 bond issues 
and five 2020 bond issues. They are amortized on a straight -line 
basis over the term of the debt.
On February 9, 2021, the Group signed with a syndicate of 18 banks 
a €1 billion multi -currency credit facility, maturing on February 9, 
2026, with two one -year extension options, exercisable (subject 
to the approval of the banks) at the end of the first and second 
years, respectively, extending the maturity of the new facility by 
a maximum of two additional years. In January 2023 Capgemini exercised the second one -year extension option, extending the 
maturity to February 7, 2028.The related costs of €250 thousand 
are amortized over the remaining term of the credit facility.
The Group set -up bilateral credit facilities with financial institutions 
with a 12 -month term and a 6 -month extension option, totaling 
€750 million. These facilities may be drawn and repaid in line with 
the Group’s liquidity requirements. Related fees total €847 thousand 
and are amortized on a straight -line basis over the term of the 
credit facilities.

FInAnCIAL InF orMATIon
2023 Financial statements
347
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI56  Share capital and additional paid -in capital
(in thousand of euros) number of shares share capitalAdditional  
paid -in capital
At December 31, 2022 (par value of €8) 173,582,113 1,388,657 6,548,412
+ Share capital increase for cash reserved for employees 3,200,000 25,600 440,992
 – Share capital reduction by cancellation of shares (4,174,000) (33,392) (663,938)
–  Share issue costs, net of tax - - (1,308)
At December 31, 2023 (par value of €8) 172,608,113 1,380,865 6,324,159
share capital increase reserved for employees,  
share issue costs
Pursuant to the 15th and 16th resolutions adopted by the Shareholders’ 
Meeting of May 16, 2023, the Group set up an employee share 
ownership plan (ESOP 2023). The subscription of Capgemini SE 
shares was proposed to approximately 97% of the Group headcount 
in 32 countries. Under the plan, a minimum length of service of three 
months was required at November 15, 2023, acquired consecutively 
or not since January 1, 2022 to qualify as a candidate for subscription. 
This leveraged plan offered employees the possibility of subscribing 
at a discounted preferential rate and, via a bank which secured and 
supplemented the investment so that the total amount invested 
represented ten times the personal contribution of the employee, 
potentially generating a greater capital gain than would have been 
the case had it been calculated based solely on the employee’s 
personal contribution. In return, the employee waives a portion 
of any increase in the price of shares subscribed on his behalf, as 
well as dividends and other financial rights that could be paid on 
these shares throughout the entire term of the plan. In addition, 
the shares are unavailable for a period of five years (except for 
cases of early release covered by plan rules in accordance with 
applicable legislation).
This employee share ownership plan (ESOP 2023) includes a 12.5% 
discount. Under the delegation of authority granted by the Board 
of Directors, the subscription price was set at €145.81 by the Chief 
Executive Officer on November 10, 2023. This price corresponds to 
the arithmetic daily volume -weighted average price (VWAP) of the Capgemini SE share, as published on the Bloomberg CAP FP EQUITY 
VAP website, over the twenty stock market trading days preceding 
the Chief Executive Officer’s decision, less a 12.5% discount.
On December 19, 2023, the Group issued 3,200,000 new shares 
reserved for employees with a par value of €8, representing a share 
capital increase of €465 million net of issue costs.
The share capital was reduced at the same time by 4,174,000 shares 
with a par value of €8 following the cancelation of shares, representing 
a share capital reduction of €697 million.
7  Share subscription plans
The Group no longer grants stock options since the plan authorized 
in 2005. The last grant under this plan was performed in June 2008.
8  Performance share plans
The Shareholders’ Meetings of May 23, 2019, May 20, 2020, 
May 20, 2021, May 19, 2022 and then May 16, 2023 authorized the 
Board of Directors to grant shares to a certain number of Group 
employees, on one or several occasions and within a maximum 
period of 18 months, subject to performance and/or presence 
conditions. On October 2, 2019, October 7, 2020, October 6, 2021, 
December 1, 2021, October 3, 2022 and November 6, 2023, the 
Board of Directors approved the terms and conditions and the 
list of beneficiaries of these plans.

FInAnCIAL InF orMATIon
2023 Financial statements
348
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT5The main features of plans active in 2023 are set out in the table below:
 October 2019 Plan
Maximum number of shares that may be granted 1,672,937 shares
% of share capital at the date of the Board of Directors’ decision 1%
Total number of shares granted 1,523,015  (2)
Date of Board of Directors’ decision October 2, 2019
Performance assessment period Three years for the two 
performance conditions
Vesting period 3 years as from the grant date 
(France) or 4 years as from the 
grant date (other countries)
Mandatory lock -in period effective as from the vesting date (France only) 2 years
Main market conditions at the grant date  
Volatility 23.14%
Risk‑free interest rate ‑0.478%/ ‑0.458%
Expected dividend rate 1.60%
Other conditions  
Performance conditions Yes (see below)
Employee presence within the Group at the vesting date Yes
Pricing model used to calculate the fair value of shares Monte Carlo for performance shares 
with external (market) conditions
Range of fair values (in euros)   
Free shares (per share and in euros) 99.57
Performance shares (per share and in euros) 52.81 – 99.57
Of which corporate officers 74.12
Number of shares at December 31, 2022  
that may vest under the plan in respect of shares previously granted,  
subject to conditions (performance and/or presence) 890,962
of which corporate officers  
Change during the period  
Number of shares subject to performance and/or  
presence conditions granted during the year  
of which corporate officers ‑
Number of shares forfeited or canceled during the year 49,400
Number of shares vested during the year 841,562 (3)
Number of shares at December 31, 2023  
that may vest under the plan in respect of shares previously granted,  
subject to conditions (performance and/or presence) -
Weighted average number of shares 670,155
Share price at the grant date (in euros)  107.35

FInAnCIAL InF orMATIon
2023 Financial statements
349
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI5 October 2020 Plan
Maximum number of shares that may be granted 2,033,396 shares
% of share capital at the date of the Board of Directors’ decision 1.2%
Total number of shares granted 1,900,000  (4)
Date of Board of Directors’ decision October 7, 2020
Performance assessment period Three years for the two 
performance conditions
Vesting period 3 years as from the grant date 
(France) or 4 years as from the 
grant date (other countries)
Mandatory lock -in period effective as from the vesting date (France only) 1 year
Main market conditions at the grant date  
Volatility 29.61%
Risk‑free interest rate ‑0.499%/ ‑0.4615%
Expected dividend rate 1.60%
Other conditions  
Performance conditions Yes (see below)
Employee presence within the Group at the vesting date Yes
Pricing model used to calculate the fair value of shares Monte Carlo for performance shares 
with external (market) conditions
Range of fair values (in euros)   
Free shares (per share and in euros) 97.54 – 99.4
Performance shares (per share and in euros) 61.29 – 99.4
of which corporate officers 79.2
Number of shares at December 31, 2022  
that may vest under the plan in respect of shares previously granted,  
subject to conditions (performance and/or presence) 1,677,990
of which corporate officers 25,000  (1) 
Change during the period  
Number of shares subject to performance and/or  
presence conditions granted during the year -
of which corporate officers ‑
Number of shares forfeited or canceled during the year 84,250
Number of shares vested during the year 519,700  (5) 
Number of shares at December 31, 2023  
that may vest under the plan in respect of shares previously granted,  
subject to conditions (performance and/or presence) 1,074,040  (6) 
Weighted average number of shares 1,512,694
Share price at the grant date (in euros)  107.55

FInAnCIAL InF orMATIon
2023 Financial statements
350
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT5 2021 Plan
Maximum number of shares that may be granted 2,025,418
% of share capital at the date of  
the Board of Directors’ decision 1.2%
Total number of shares granted 1,834,500 (7) 14,325  (9)
Date of Board of Directors’ decision October 6, 2021 December 1, 2021
Performance assessment period Three years for the two 
performance conditions Presence conditions only
Vesting period 3 years as from the grant date 
(France) or 4 years as from the 
grant date (other countries)3 years as from the grant date 
(other countries)
Mandatory lock -in period effective as  
from the vesting date (France only) 1 year -
Main market conditions at the grant date  
Volatility 30.967% 30.967%
Risk‑free interest rate ‑0.4246%/ ‑0.2605% ‑0.4246%/ ‑0.2605%
Expected dividend rate 1.60% 1.60%
Other conditions  
Performance conditions Yes (see below) No
Employee presence within the Group at the vesting date Yes Yes
Pricing model used to calculate the fair value of shares Monte Carlo for performance shares 
with external (market) conditions -
Range of fair values (in euros)  
Free shares (per share and in euros) 161.73 – 166.68 200.82
Performance shares (per share and in euros) 99.41 – 166.68 ‑
of which corporate officers 129.68 ‑
Number of shares at December 31, 2022  
that may vest under the plan in respect of shares 
previously granted, subject to conditions  
(performance and/or presence) 1,702,500 10,995
of which corporate officers 18,500  (1) ‑
Change during the period  
Number of shares subject to performance and/or 
presence conditions granted during the year - -
of which corporate officers ‑ ‑
Number of shares forfeited or canceled during the year 107,920 2,440
Number of shares vested during the year 1,965 ‑
Number of shares at December 31, 2023  
that may vest under the plan in respect of  
shares previously granted, subject to conditions  
(performance and/or presence) 1,592,615 (8) 8,555
Weighted average number of shares 1,643,331 9,681
Share price at the grant date (in euros)  175.65 207.30

FInAnCIAL InF orMATIon
2023 Financial statements
351
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI5 2022 Plan
Maximum number of shares that may be granted 2,068,697
% of share capital at the date of the Board of Directors’ decision 1.2%
Total number of shares granted 1,982,000 (10) 13,750  (9)
Date of Board of Directors’ decision October 3, 2022 October 3, 2022
Performance assessment period Three years for the two 
performance conditions Presence conditions only
Vesting period 3 years as from the grant date 
(France) or 4 years as from the 
grant date (other countries)3 years as from the grant date
Mandatory lock -in period effective as  
from the vesting date (France only) 1 year -
Main market conditions at the grant date  
Volatility 31.244% 31.244%
Risk‑free interest rate 2.8360%/2.9520% 2.8360%/2.9520%
Expected dividend rate 1.60% 1.60%
Other conditions  
Performance conditions Yes (see below) No
Employee presence within the Group at the vesting date Yes Yes
Pricing model used to calculate the fair value of shares Monte Carlo for performance shares 
with external (market) conditions -
Range of fair values (in euros)   
Free shares (per share and in euros) 143.27 – 151.48 154.75
Performance shares (per share and in euros) 99.83 – 151.48 ‑
of which corporate officers 113.63 ‑
Number of shares at December 31, 2022  
that may vest under the plan in respect of  
shares previously granted, subject to conditions 
(performance and/or presence) 1,965,470 13,750
of which corporate officers 21,000  (1) ‑
Change during the period  
Number of shares subject to performance and/or 
presence conditions granted during the year - -
of which corporate officers ‑ ‑
Number of shares forfeited or canceled during the year 97,265 3,500
Number of shares vested during the year 660 ‑
Number of shares at December 31, 2023  
that may vest under the plan in respect of  
shares previously granted, subject to conditions 
(performance and/or presence) 1,867,545  (11) 10,250
Weighted average number of shares 1,913,097 11,865
Share price at the grant date (in euros)  163.15 163.15

FInAnCIAL InF orMATIon
2023 Financial statements
352
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT5 2023 Plan
Maximum number of shares that may be granted 2,082,985
% of share capital at the date of the Board of Directors’ decision 1.2%
Total number of shares granted 1,872,500 (12)
Date of Board of Directors’ decision November 6, 2023
Performance assessment period Three years for the two 
performance conditions
Vesting period 3 years as from the grant date 
(France and other countries)
Mandatory lock -in period effective as from the vesting date (France only) 1 year
Main market conditions at the grant date  
Volatility 28.360%
Risk‑free interest rate 3.7168%/3.0600%
Expected dividend rate 2.0%
Other conditions  
Performance conditions Yes (see below)
Employee presence within the Group at the vesting date Yes
Pricing model used to calculate the fair value of shares Monte Carlo for performance shares 
with external (market) conditions
Range of fair values (in euros)   
Free shares (per share and in euros) 154.53 – 158.55
Performance shares (per share and in euros) 100.09 – 102.46
of which corporate officers 122.99
Number of shares at December 31, 2022  
that may vest under the plan in respect of shares previously granted,  
subject to conditions (performance and/or presence) -
of which corporate officers  
Change during the period  
Number of shares subject to performance and/or  
presence conditions granted during the year 1,872,500
of which corporate officers 19,500  (1) 
Number of shares forfeited or canceled during the year 5,000
Number of shares vested during the year -
Number of shares at December 31, 2023  
that may vest under the plan in respect of shares previously granted,  
subject to conditions (performance and/or presence) 1,867,500  (13) 
Weighted average number of shares 285,385
Share price at the grant date (in euros)  168.75
(1) Grant subject to performance conditions only.
(2) Grant subject to performance conditions only, except for 8,852 shares subject to presence conditions only.
(3) In respect of the “non-French” plan only.
(4) Grant subject to performance conditions only, except for 39,800 shares subject to presence conditions only.
(5) In respect of the French plan only (excluding 2,000 shares for death).
(6) In respect of the “non-French” plan only.
(7) Grant subject to performance conditions only, except for 3,600 shares subject to presence conditions only.
(8) Of which 461,530 shares in respect of the French plan and 1,131,085 shares in respect of the “non-French” plan.
(9) Grant subject to presence conditions only.
(10) Grant subject to performance conditions only, except for 3,100 shares subject to presence conditions only.
(11) Of which 501,065 shares in respect of the French plan and 1,366,480 shares in respect of the“non-French” plan.
(12) Grant subject to performance conditions only, except for 45,960 shares subject to presence conditions only.
(13) Of which 481,430 shares in respect of the French plan and 1,386,070 shares in respect of the “non-French” plan.

FInAnCIAL InF orMATIon
2023 Financial statements
353
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI5a)  shares vested in 2023 under the 2019 and 2020 plans
The assessment of performance conditions under the October 2019 
plan concluded that the internal performance condition and the 
CSR performance conditions were 100% attained and the external 
performance condition was 100% attained, given the performance 
of the Capgemini SE share, which exceeded that of the comparison 
basket and the 110% threshold enabling the maximum allocation. 
Satisfaction of the presence condition at the end of September 2023 
led to the vesting of 839,512 shares in October 2023 to non-French 
beneficiaries (2,050 additional shares were delivered during the 
year following a death). A total of 1,249,112 shares have vested 
under the October 2019 plan, representing 82.02% of shares 
initially granted.
The assessment of performance conditions under the October 2020 
plan concluded that the internal performance condition and 
the CSR performance conditions were 100% attained and the 
external performance condition was 100% attained, given the 
performance of the Capgemini SE share, which exceeded that 
of the comparison basket and the 110% threshold enabling the 
maximum allocation. Satisfaction of the presence condition noted 
at the end of September 2023 led to the vesting of 516,700 shares 
in October 2023 to French beneficiaries. In addition, 3,000 shares 
were delivered during the year to beneficiaries who died during the 
vesting period, giving a total of 519,700 shares delivered in 2023.
b)  Performance conditions of the plans
The following internal and external performance conditions apply:
external performance condition
No shares are granted if the performance of the Capgemini SE 
share during the period in question is less than the performance 
of the basket of securities over the same period.
The number of shares ultimately granted:
 —  is equal to 50% of the number of shares initially allocated if 
the performance of the Capgemini SE share is at least equal 
to 100% of the basket;
 —  is equal to 100% of the number of shares initially allocated if 
the relative performance of the Capgemini SE share is higher 
than or equal to 110% of the basket;
 —  varies on a straight -line basis between 50% and 100% of the 
initial allocation, based on a pre -defined schedule, where the 
performance of the Capgemini  SE share is between 100% 
and 110% of the basket.
Moreover, in 2019, an outperformance condition was added 
applicable to all beneficiaries except corporate officers up to 
the 2022 plan, such that if the relative performance of the share 
reaches or exceeds 120% of the basket, the allocation may amount 
to 110% of the external performance portion (but the final grant 
may not exceed 100% of the initial grant).
The basket is unchanged since 2017 and comprises the following 
companies: Accenture/Indra/Atos/Tieto/CGI Group/Infosys/Sopra 
Steria/Cognizant and two indices, the CAC 40 index and the Euro 
Stoxx 600 Technology index. Alten was added to the basked in 2023.The fair value of shares subject to external performance conditions 
is adjusted for a discount calculated in accordance with the Monte 
Carlo model, together with a discount for non -transferability for 
the shares granted in France.
Internal performance condition
The internal performance condition is based on the generation 
of organic free cash flow over a three -period encompassing fiscal 
years 2019 to 2021 for the 2019 plan, fiscal years 2020 to 2022 for 
the 2020 plan, fiscal years 2021 to 2023 for the 2021 plan, fiscal 
years 2022 to 2024 for the 2022 plan and fiscal years 2023 to 2025 
for the 2023 plan. Accordingly:
 —  no shares will be granted in respect of the internal 
performance condition if the cumulative increase in 
organic free cash flow over the reference period is less than 
€3,100 million for the 2019 plan, €3,400 million for the 2020 
plan, €3,900 million for the 2021 plan, €5,300 million for the 
2022 plan and €5,400 million for the 2023 plan.
 —  100% of the initial internal allocation will be granted if organic 
free cash flow is equal to or exceeds €3,400 million for the 
2019 plan, €3,700  million for the 2020 plan, €4,200  million 
for the 2021 plan, €5,700  million for beneficiaries other 
than corporate officers and €6,100 for corporate officers 
for the 2022 plan and €5,800 for the 2023 plan. The trigger 
threshold for the application of the outperformance bonus is 
€3,700 million for the 2019 plan, €3,900 million for the 2020 
plan, €4,500 million for the 2021 plan, €6,100 million for the 
2022 plan and €6,300 for the 2023 plan (but the final grant 
may not exceed 100% of the initial grant for these plans).
The fair value of shares subject to internal performance conditions 
is calculated assuming 100% realization and will be adjusted where 
necessary in line with effective realization of this condition. A 
discount for non -transferability is also applied for the shares 
granted to French beneficiaries.
Inclusion of a new C sr performance condition since 2018
The Board of Directors’ meeting of March 13, 2018 wished to align 
the performance conditions with the Group’s strategic priorities 
by proposing the inclusion of a performance condition based on 
diversity and sustainable development objectives reflecting the 
Group’s corporate, social and environmental responsibility strategy. 
This provision was retained in 2023 and in view of the inclusion of 
an outperformance condition, the following table summarizes the 
applicable performance conditions, under the 2023 plan, for each 
of the three conditions:

FInAnCIAL InF orMATIon
2023 Financial statements
354
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT5Summary of performance conditions applicable to beneficiaries of the 2023 plan
Performance conditionsWeighting 
appliedPercentage of the grant determined by  
each performance condition  (1) 
Market condition: 
Performance of the Capgemini share over   
a three -year period40%  —  0% if Capgemini share performance < 100% of  
the average performance of the basket
 —  50% if equal to 100%
 —  100% if equal to 110%
 —  110% if at least equal to 120% of the average  
performance of the basket
Financial condition: 
Organic free cash flow (2) for the three -year cumulative 
period from January 1, 2023 to December 31, 202540%  —  0% if organic free cash flow generated (2)  
over the reference period < €5,400 million
 —  50% if equal to €5,400 million
 —  100% if at least equal to €5,800 million
 —  110% if at least equal to €6,200 million
Csr condition comprising two objectives:   
Diversity: Proportion of women as executive leaders 
at the end of 202510%  —  0% if the % of women in the Executive Leaders  
population is < 28.5%
 —  50% if equal to 28.5%
 —  100% if equal to 30%
 —  110% if at least equal to 31.5%
Carbon footprint reduction in 2025  
compared with 201910%  —  0% if the reduction in GHG emissions in 2025  
compared with the reference period < 85%
 —  50% if equal to 85%
 —  100% if equal to 100%
(1) For each performance condition: calculation of the number of shares that will ultimately vest between the different levels of performance on a straight -line basis, it being 
understood that the total percentage of shares that will ultimately vest after determination of all performance conditions, may under no circumstances exceed 100% of 
the Initial Grant.
(2) Organic free cash flow, alternative performance measure monitored by the Group, is defined in Note 3 – Alternative performance measures.
9  Change in shareholders’ equity
(in thousand of euros) 12/31/2022Appropriation of 
2022 net profitother  
movements 12/31/2023 
Share capital 1,388,657 - (7,792) 1,380,865 
Additional paid -in capital 6,548,412 - (224,254) 6,324,159 
Legal reserve 137,745 1,120  138,866 
Other reserves 559,573 - - 559,573 
Retained earnings 6,048,794 (130,141)  5,918,653 
Dividends paid - 558,813 (558,813) - 
Profit for the year 429,792 (429,792) 804,593 804,593 
Tax-driven provisions 41,180 - 8,483 49,663 
TOTAL 15,154,153 ‑ 22,218 15,176,371 
The appropriation of the net profit for 2022 led to the distribution on 
June 1, 2023 of a dividend of €3.25 on each of the 171,942,308 shares 
ranking for dividends, representing a total distribution of 
€558,813 thousand. The amount not paid out on the 1,639,805 shares 
held by the Company on June 1, 2023 of €5,329 thousand was 
appropriated to retained earnings.
Other movements mainly concern:
 —  the share capital increase of €25,600 thousand following the 
issue of 3,200,000 new shares reserved for employees (ESOP 
2023);  —  the increase in additional paid -in capital of €440,992 thousand 
pursuant to the aforementioned transaction, net of post -tax 
share issue costs of €1,308 thousand; 
 —  the share capital reduction by cancellation of 4,174,000 shares 
purchased under the share buyback program authorized by 
the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 16, 2023 in the amount of 
€33,392 thousand; 
 —  the decrease in additional paid -in capital of 
€663,938 thousand pursuant to this cancelation; 
 —  2023 net profit for the year of €804,593 thousand.

FInAnCIAL InF orMATIon
2023 Financial statements
355
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI510  Provisions for contingencies and losses
(in thousand of euros)At  
January 1 Chargereversal 
(utilized)At  
December 31
Provisions for contingencies and losses    
 —  for foreign exchange losses 203,525 132,735 203,525 132,735
 —  for other risks - 2,447 - 2,447
TOTAL 203,525 135,182 203,525 135,182
The application of ANC Regulation no. 2015 -05 on forward financial 
instruments and hedging transactions led to the recognition of a 
charge to provisions for foreign exchange losses of €132,438 thousand at December 31, 2023 compared to €203,513 thousand in 2022. 
The residual charge to provisions concerns the remeasurement of 
foreign currency denominated receivables and payables.
11  Bond issues
(in thousand of euros) December 31, 2022 December 31, 2023 
2015 -2023 Bond issue 1,000,000 -
2018 -2024 Bond issue 600,000 600,000 
2018 -2028 Bond issue 500,000 500,000 
2020 -2025 Bond issue 800,000 800,000 
2020 -2026 Bond issue 800,000 800,000 
2020 -2029 Bond issue 1,000,000 1,000,000 
2020 -2030 Bond issue 800,000 800,000 
2020 -2032 Bond issue 1,200,000 1,200,000 
TOTAL 6,700,000 5,700,000 
Bonds
a)  July 1, 2015 bond issues
On June 24, 2015, Capgemini SE performed a “triple tranche” 
bond issue for a total nominal amount of €2,750 million and with 
a settlement/delivery date of July 1, 2015:
 —  2015 bond issue (July 2018)
The July 2018 tranche of €500 million nominal amount, was 
redeemed by the Group at maturity on July 2, 2018.
 —  2015 bond issue (July 2020)
The July 2020 tranche of €1,250 million nominal amount, was 
redeemed early by the Group on June 2, 2020.
 —  2015 bond issue (July 2023)
The July 2023 tranche of €1,000 million nominal amount, was 
redeemed early by the Group on July 3, 2023.
b)  April 2018 bond issues
On April 3, 2018, Capgemini SE performed a dual tranche bond issue 
for a total amount of €1,100 million, with a settlement/delivery 
date of April 18, 2018.
 —  2024 bond issue
This tranche has a nominal amount of €600 million, comprising 
6,000 bonds with a unit value of €100,000 each. The bonds 
mature on October 18, 2024 and pay an annual coupon of 1.00% 
(issue price 99.377%). This tranche was fully subscribed by a bank 
in a debt swap transaction. In exchange for the new securities 
issued, the bank presented 2015 bonds (July 2020) with a nominal 
value of €574.4 million acquired directly on the market through a 
Tender Offer. This bond swap was recognized as a modification to a borrowing with the same counterparty, without any substantial 
change to the terms of the debt.
 —  2028 bond issue
This tranche has a nominal amount of €500 million, comprising 
5,000 bonds with a unit value of €100,000 each. The bonds mature 
on April 18, 2028 and pay an annual coupon of 1.75% (issue price 
99.755%).
These two bond issues are callable before their respective maturity 
dates by Capgemini SE, subject to certain conditions set out in 
the issue prospectus and particularly concerning the minimum 
redemption price.
These bond issues are also subject to standard early redemption, 
early repayment and pari passu  clauses.
The terms and conditions of these tranches were set out in the 
prospectus approved by the AMF on April 10, 2018 under reference 
number no. 18 -126.
c)  April 2020 bond issues
On April 8, 2020, Capgemini SE performed a four tranche bond 
issue for a total amount of €3,500 million, with a settlement/
delivery date of April 15, 2020:
 —  2022 Bond issue: this tranche had a nominal amount of 
€500  million, comprising 5,000  bonds with a unit value of 
€100,000 each. The bonds had a maturity of April 15, 2022 
and paid an annual coupon of 1.25% (issue price 99.794%). 
The bond issue was redeemed early by the Group on 
December 29, 2021; 
 —  2026 Bond issue: this tranche has a nominal amount of 
€800  million, comprising 8,000  bonds with a unit value of 
€100,000 each. The bonds mature on April 15, 2026 and pay 
an annual coupon of 1.625% (issue price 99.412%);

FInAnCIAL InF orMATIon
2023 Financial statements
356
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT5 —  2029 Bond issue: this tranche has a nominal amount of 
€1  billion, comprising 10,000  bonds with a unit value of 
€100,000 each. The bonds mature on April 15, 2029 and pay 
an annual coupon of 2.0% (issue price 99.163%); 
 —  2032 Bond issue: this tranche has a nominal amount of 
€1.2  billion, comprising 12,000  bonds with a unit value of 
€100,000 each. The bonds mature on April 15, 2032 and pay 
an annual coupon of 2.375% (issue price 99.003%).
These bond issues are callable before their respective maturity 
dates by Capgemini SE, subject to certain conditions set out in 
the issue prospectus and particularly concerning the minimum 
redemption price.
These bond issues are also subject to standard early redemption, 
early repayment and pari passu  clauses.
The terms and conditions of these tranches were set out in the 
prospectus approved by the AMF on April 09, 2020 under reference 
number no. 20 -138.
d)  June 2020 bond issues
On June 16, 2020, Capgemini SE performed a dual tranche bond 
issue for a total amount of €1,600 million, with a settlement/
delivery date of June 23, 2020:
 —  2025 Bond issue: this tranche has a nominal amount of 
€800  million, comprising 8,000  bonds with a unit value of 
€100,000 each. The bonds mature on June 23, 2025 and pay 
an annual coupon of 0.625% (issue price 99.887%); 
 —  2030 Bond issue: this tranche has a nominal amount of 
€800  million, comprising 8,000  bonds with a unit value of 
€100,000 each. The bonds mature on June 23, 2030 and pay 
an annual coupon of 1.125% (issue price 99.521%).
These two bond issues are callable before their respective maturity 
dates by Capgemini SE, subject to certain conditions set out in 
the issue prospectus and particularly concerning the minimum 
redemption price.These bond issues are also subject to standard early redemption, 
early repayment and pari passu  clauses.
The terms and conditions of these tranches were set out in the 
prospectus approved by the AMF on June 18, 2020 under reference 
number no. 20 -261.
12  Bank loans and borrowings
Bank loans and borrowings total €1,383,900 thousand and comprise 
(i) the balances on certain euro and foreign currency bank accounts 
used in connection with the Group’s worldwide cash pooling 
arrangements in the amount of €1,191,023 thousand, offset in the 
amount of €1,208,322 thousand by opposite balances presented in 
cash and cash equivalents of the Company in balance sheet assets 
and (ii) accrued interest on bond issues of €58,590 thousand and 
(iii) liability derivatives of €132,438 thousand.
Syndicated credit facility negotiated by Capgemini SE
On February 9, 2021, the Group signed with a syndicate of 18 banks 
a €1 billion multi -currency credit facility, maturing on February 9, 
2026, with two one -year extension options, exercisable (subject 
to the approval of the banks) at the end of the first and second 
years, respectively, extending the maturity of the new facility by 
a maximum of two additional years. In January 2023 Capgemini 
exercised the second one -year extension option, extending the 
maturity to February 7, 2028.
An upgrade or downgrade in Capgemini SE’s credit rating would 
have no impact on the availability of this new credit facility. This 
new credit facility has no financial covenants.
This credit facility had not been drawn at December 31, 2023.
Bilateral credit facilities
In 2023, the Group set -up bilateral facilities with financial institutions 
for a period of 12 months, plus a 6 -month extension option (subject 
to the approval of the banks), for a total amount of €750 million. 
These facilities may be drawn and repaid in line with the Group’s 
liquidity needs. They were not drawn at December 31, 2023.

FInAnCIAL InF orMATIon
2023 Financial statements
357
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI513  Maturity of payables at the year end
(in thousand of euros) Grossone year  
or lessOne to five 
yearsMore than  
five years
Bond issues     
 2018 -2024 Bond issue 600,000 600,000 - -
 2018 -2028 Bond issue 500,000 - 500,000 -
 2020 -2025 Bond issue 800,000 - 800,000 -
 2020 -2026 Bond issue 800,000 - 800,000 -
 2020 -2029 Bond issue 1,000,000 - - 1,000,000
 2020 -2030 Bond issue 800,000 - - 800,000
 2020 -2032 Bond issue 1,200,000 - - 1,200,000
Sub -total 5,700,000 600,000 2,100,000 3,000,000
Bank loans and borrowings     
 Bank overdrafts 1,159 1,159 - -
 Bank overdrafts (Group cash pooling arrangement) 1,191,023 1,191,023 - -
 Accrued interest and commission payable 59,018 59,018 - -
 Cash instruments 132,700 132,700 - -
Sub -total 1,383,900 1,383,900 - -
Group loans and borrowings     
 Loans 540,886 540,886 - -
 Group investments 1,026,218 1,026,218 - -
 Other payables (1) 1,416,980 1,274,553 142,427 -
Sub -total 2,984,085 2,841,658 142,427 -
Accounts and notes payable 5,117 5,117 - -
Tax and social security liabilities 2,291 2,291 - -
Other liabilities 1,230 1,230 - -
TOTAL 10,076,623 4,834,196 2,242,427 3,000,000
(1) Other Group payables consist of subsidiary current account balances under the Group’s worldwide cash pooling arrangement of €1,208,322 thousand, subsidiary current 
accounts for tax consolidation purposes of €186,390 thousand and Group supplier current accounts for €22,268 thousand.
14  Accrued income and charges
Accrued charges reported in the balance sheet break down as follows:
(in thousand of euros) Amount
Borrowings  
Accrued interest payable 60,611
Other liabilities  
 Accounts and notes payable 4,627
 Tax and social security liabilities 608
TOTAL 65,846
Accrued interest payable mainly comprises interest on bond issues of €58,590 thousand.

FInAnCIAL InF orMATIon
2023 Financial statements
358
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT5Accrued income reported in the balance sheet break down as follows:
(in thousand of euros) Amount
Receivable from controlled entities  
 Accrued interest receivable 4,369
Cash and cash equivalents  
 Accrued interest receivable 1,901
TOTAL 6,270
15  Unrealized foreign exchange gains and losses on foreign currency receivables and payables and  
on cash instruments
(in thousand of euros) reported in assets reported in liabilitiesProvision for foreign 
exchange losses
On cash instruments 132,438 287,287 132,438
On other receivables/payables 297 3 297
TOTAL 132,735 287,290 132,735
The application of ANC Regulation no. 2015 -05 on forward financial 
instruments and hedging transactions resulted in the recognition 
at December 31, 2023 of the value of asset and liability derivative 
instruments and unrealized foreign exchange differences on 
the corresponding cash instruments. Asset derivatives and the corresponding unrealized foreign exchange gains total 
€287,287 thousand and liability derivatives and the corresponding 
unrealized foreign exchange losses total €132,438 thousand. 
Derivatives assets and liabilities are recorded in the balance sheet 
in cash and cash equivalents.
16  Net financial expense
(in thousand of euros) Amount
Provisions for financial items  
Charge (138,868)
Reversal 333,674
Sub -total 194,807
Dividends received 431,417
Sub -total 431,417
Other financial income and expense  
Net income from short -term investments (9,183)
Revenue from loans, current accounts and Group cash pooling arrangements 77,931
Net foreign exchange gains (losses) 26,863
Interest on borrowings, current accounts and Group cash pooling arrangements (110,842)
Interest on bond issues (106,709)
Net expenses on investment funds (FCP & SICAV) 18,302
Other 11,871
Sub -total (91,767)
NET FINANCIAL EXPENSE 534,457
Provision charges and reversals mainly consist of charges to and 
reversals of provisions for foreign exchange losses and provisions for 
equity interests. The application of ANC Regulation no. 2015 -05 on 
forward financial instruments and hedging transactions led to the recognition of a charge to provisions for foreign exchange losses 
of €132,438 thousand at December 31, 2023.
The Company received dividends of €431,417 thousand in 2022.

FInAnCIAL InF orMATIon
2023 Financial statements
359
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI517  Net non -recurring income (expense)
(in thousand of euros) Amount
Disposals of equity interests  
Sales proceeds 20,124
Net carrying amount (16,235)
Net proceeds on disposals of treasury shares under the liquidity contract 2,329
Sub -total 6,218
Accelerated depreciation (8,483)
Charges for the period (2,447)
Loss on delivery of treasury shares (1,454)
Other (325)
Sub -total (12,708)
NET NON ‑RECURRING INCOME (EXPENSE) (6,490)
18  Income tax expense
In France, Capgemini SE is the parent company of a French tax 
consolidation group comprising 23 companies. In 2023, Capgemini SE 
recognized a total tax expense of €41,729 thousand, including 
notably an expense of €38,810 thousand in respect of the tax 
consolidation.In the absence of tax consolidation, Capgemini SE would have 
recognized a theoretical income tax expense of €58,500 thousand.
Breakdown of the income tax expense
(in thousand of euros) 2023 
Net profit before  tax Income tax expense  
Recurring profit before tax 852,812 (221,870) 
Net non-recurring income (expense) (6,490) 1,688 
Accounting profit for the year before tax 846,322 (220,182) 
Tax differences (621,463) 161,682 
Tax credits   
 — Corporate sponsorship tax credit - 1,529 
Tax rebates and repayments - -
Impact of tax audits - -
Offset of tax losses carried forward - -
Tax consolidation of subsidiaries - 15,242 
INCOME TAX EXPENSE ‑ (41,729) 
Impact of tax-driven valuations
(in thousand of euros) Amount
Profit for the year 804,593
Income tax expense 41,729
Profit for the year before tax 846,322
Change in tax -driven provisions  
 —  Accelerated depreciation (8,483)
PROFIT EXCLUDING TAX ‑DRIVEN VALUATIONS (BEFORE TAX) 837,839 

FInAnCIAL InF orMATIon
2023 Financial statements
360
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT5Change in deferred tax liabilities
deFerred  TAX on  TeMPor ArY dIFFeren Ces
(in thousand of euros)Prior year  
amountCurrent year  
amount
Non -deductible provisions   
 —  Organic sales tax 114 124
Provisions for contingencies and losses   
 —  provision for foreign exchange losses 203,525 132,735
 —  provision for income tax - 2,447
Unrealized foreign exchange gains 402,073 287,290
Unrealized foreign exchange losses (203,525) (132,735)
Remeasurement differences on receivables and  
payables and fair value measurement of derivatives (6,328) 1,354
TOTAL 395,859 291,215
Tax rate for temporary differences - -
DEFERRED TAX 102,230 75,206
Deferred tax assets   
 —  Tax losses carried forward - -
Tax rate for temporary differences 25.83% 25.83%
DEFERRED TAX ‑ ‑
III –  Other information
19  Off‑balance sheet commitments
a)  Commitments given in favor of subsidiaries
Guarantees, deposits and comfort letters granted by Capgemini SE to its subsidiaries at December 31, 2023 break down as follows:
(in thousand of euros) Amount
Financial items 155,174
Operating items 1,172,198
Other 6,000
TOTAL 1,333,373
Guarantees, deposits and comfort letters granted to subsidiaries 
in respect of financial items provide them with access to local cash 
facilities in the form of credit facilities. No amounts were used in 
respect of these credit facilities at December 31, 2023.
b)  other commitments
The Group has provided performance and/or financial guarantees 
for a number of major contracts.
Capgemini SE, together with all of its subsidiaries and any entities 
which it directly or indirectly owns more than 50%, are insured for 
the financial implications of any civil or professional liability claims 
that may be filed against them as a result of their activities. The 
insurance is part of a worldwide program comprising a number of 
policies taken out with leading insurance companies. The terms 
and conditions of this insurance program (including maximum 
coverage) are regularly reviewed and adjusted to reflect changes 
in revenues, business activities and risk profiles.c)  Financial instruments
Currency hedges/ derivative instruments
At December 31, 2023, the values of external currency derivative 
instruments negotiated in respect of foreign currency denominated 
internal financing arrangements (loans granted by the Company 
to its subsidiaries), primarily break down as follows:
 —  a euro/Australian dollar currency swap with a negative value 
of €3,225 thousand for a nominal amount of AUD215 million 
(€132 million); 
 —  a euro/Swiss franc currency swap with a negative value 
of €720  thousand for a nominal amount of CHF36  million 
(€39 million);
 —  a euro/Canadian dollar currency swap with a positive value 
of €277  thousand for a nominal amount of CAD127  million 
(€87 million). 
At December 31, 2023, external currency derivatives hedging 
brand royalties invoiced to subsidiaries had a positive value of 
€125 thousand and mainly concerned the pound sterling, US dollar, 
Swedish krona and Chinese yuan.

FInAnCIAL InF orMATIon
2023 Financial statements
361
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI520  Related companies
(in thousand of euros) Total related companies
Balance sheet items   
 Equity interests 22,647,327 22,647,327
 Receivable from controlled entities 508,838 508,838
 Payable to controlled entities 1,567,104 1,567,104
 Related and associated companies   
 — Receivable 213,425 213,425
 — Payable 1,416,980 1,416,980
Income Statement items   
 Investment income 431,417 431,417
 Income on Group loans 33,931 33,931
 Other interest and similar income 56,202 7,652
 Interest and similar expenses 227,065 82,259
21  Consolidating Company
Capgemini SE is the consolidating company for the Capgemini group.
22  Subsequent events
At the Shareholders’ Meeting, the Board of Directors will recommend 
a dividend payment of €3.40 per share in respect of 2023.23  Remuneration of members of  
the Board of Directors
In 2023, compensation paid to Directors in respect of their duties 
totaled €1,387,100 (or €1,047,235 after deduction of 12.8% withholding 
tax for beneficiaries not tax -resident in France and the single 30% 
flat-rate deduction for beneficiaries tax -resident in France).
24  Audit fees
(in thousand of euros) MAZArs PWC
Statutory audit of the consolidated and separate financial statements 435 589
Non -audit services 104 209
TOTAL 539 798

FInAnCIAL InF orMATIon
2023 Financial statements
362
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT5544 Subsidiaries and investments
(in millions of euros)  Capitalother 
share -
holders’ 
equity 
(including 
net income  
for the  
year)% 
interestnumber  
of shares  
ownedBook value  
of shares  
—————————  
Gross               n etLoans &  
advances  
grantedGua ran -
tees  
given2023  
reve -
nuedivi-
dends
Subsidiaries           
Capgemini North America Inc 1 2,221 100.00% 982,000 9,132 9,132 - - - -
ALTRAN Technologies 127 2,153 100.00% 254,559,305 3,733 3,733 - - 908 -
CGS HOLDINGS Ltd 611 1100.00% 558,777,061 721 721 - - - 44
Gemini Consulting Holding Ltd - 14 100.00% 1,083 23 23 - - - 1
Capgemini Oldco Ltd 12 25 100.00% 1,033,938,857 801 801 - - - 12
Capgemini AB (Suède) 211 9100.00% 25,861 387 387 - 7 15 30
Capgemini NV (Benelux) 2 252 100.00% 21,582,376 1,467 1,467 - - - -
Capgemini Business Services BV 19 (13) 100.00% 42,227 41 6 - - - -
Capgemini Deutschland Holding GmbH 129 170 95.59% - 629 629 - - 58 67
Capgemini Consulting Österreich AG 56 52 100.00% 7,770,452 162 162 4 - 36 -
Capgemini Suisse AG 1 18 61.80% 592 99 99 38 52 243 -
Capgemini Polska Sp Z.o.o (Pologne) 4 144 100.00% 129,160 25 25 18 - 548 -
Capgemini Magyarorszag Kft - (0) 100.00% 1 3 3 - - 6 -
capgemini Czech Republic s r o 3 (2) 98.77% 70,639 14 3 - - 9 -
Capgemini France S.A.S. 89 472 100.00% 5,713,954 1,324 1,324 - - - 102
Capgemini Technology Services Maroc S.A. 3 18 100.00% 329,996 3 3 - - 95 5
SOGETI S.A.S. 261 1,350 100.00% 52,106,876 754 754 - - 1 160
Capgemini Italia S.p.A. 28 171 64.45% 3,575,000 543 543 - - 831 -
Capgemini España S.L.  
(Sociedad Unipersonal) 109 226 34.03% 371,784 340 312 - - 696 -
Capgemini Portugal, Serviços  
de Consultoria e Informatica, SA 6 48 25.48% 328,177 44 39 - - 201 -
Capgemini Business Services 
Guatemala S.A. 1 12 99.99% 12,925,876 1 1 - - 34 7
Capgemini Argentina S.A. 1 1 0.04% 259,603 - - - - 11 -
Capgemini Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd. 486 48 100.00% 696,975,680 599 599 - - 1 -
Capgemini Australia Pty Ltd. 216 (37) 100.00% 3,711,003 358 358 128 - 511 -
Capgemini Technology Services India Limited 6 2,181 35.01% 20,750,621 564 564 - -3,111 -
Capgemini Service S.A.S 8 48 100.00% 8,000,000 164 56 - - - -
S.C.I. Paris Étoile - 6 99.99% 9,999 48 31 - - 2 2
Immobilière les Fontaines S.A.R.L. 3 27 99.90% 1,004,628 52 52 - - 5 -
Capgemini Gouvieux S.A.S. 4 (2) 100.00% 275,095 21 1 - - 24 -
Capgemini Latin America S.A.S 14 (2) 100.00% 1,398,345 546 166 - - - -
Capgemini Reinsurance International S.A. 20 -100.00% 10,000 5 5 - - 9 -
Other French compagnies n/m n/m n/m n/m 7 1 46 - n/m -
Azqore - - 17.14% 1,250 21 21 - - - -
Verkor - - 5.91% 101,844 9 9 - 6 - -
Other foreign compagnies n/m n/m n/m n/m 5 5 271 - n/m -
Sub-total 22,647 22,036 504 66 7,354 431
Investments           
As of December 31, 2023, other investments held by Capgemini SE are not material
Foreign currency amounts have been translated at the closing rate for balance sheet items and at the average rate for Income Statement items.

FInAnCIAL InF orMATIon
2023 Financial statements
363
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI5545  Statutory auditors’ report on the Company financial statements
This is a translation into English of the Statutory auditors’ report on the financial statements of the Company issued in French and it is provided 
solely for the convenience of English‑speaking users.
This Statutory auditors’ report includes information required by European regulation and French law. This report should be read in conjunction 
with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional auditing standards applicable in France.
For the year ended December 31, 2023
To the shareholders,
Opinion
In compliance with the engagement entrusted to us by your Annual General Meeting, we have audited the accompanying financial 
statements of Capgemini SE for the year ended December 31, 2023.
In our opinion, the financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets and liabilities and of the financial position of the Company 
as at December 31, 2023 and of the results of its operations for the year then ended in accordance with French accounting principles.
The audit opinion expressed above is consistent with our report to the Audit and Risk Committee.
Basis for opinion
Audit Framework
We conducted our audit in accordance with professional standards applicable in France. We believe that the audit evidence we have 
obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Statutory auditors Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial 
Statements Section of our report.
Independence
We conducted our audit engagement in compliance with independence requirements of the French Commercial Code ( Code de commerce ) 
and the French Code of Ethics ( Code de déontologie ) for Statutory auditors, for the period from January 1st, 2023 to the date of our 
report and specifically we did not provide any prohibited non -audit services referred to in Article 5 of Regulation (EU) No. 537/2014.
Justification of Assessments – Key Audit Matters
In accordance with the requirements of Articles L. 821 -53 and R. 821 -180 of the French Commercial Code ( Code de commerce ) relating 
to the justification of our assessments, we inform you of the key audit matters relating to risks of material misstatement that, in our 
professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period, as well as how we 
addressed those risks.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole and in forming our opinion thereon, 
and we do not provide a separate opinion on specific items of the financial statements.

FInAnCIAL InF orMATIon
2023 Financial statements
364
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT5Measurement of investments in subsidiaries in Capgemini SE
Risks identified
As of December 31, 2023, investments in subsidiaries reported in 
the balance sheet amount to €22,545m. Subsidiaries investments 
are recognized at their acquisition -date cost and may be written 
down based on their value in use.
As stated in the Note “Accounting policies – Financial fixed Assets” 
to the financial statements, a depreciation is accounted for should 
the value in use of the equity investments be lower than its carrying 
amount. The value in use of equity investments is estimated by 
Management, mainly using discounted future cash flows adjusted 
of net cash/debt and deferred taxes.
The measurement of the value in use requires judgment by 
Management in terms of the inputs chosen, which may correspond 
to historical or forward -looking information.
Management ensures at year end that the carrying amount of the 
subsidiaries investments is not higher than their value in use. An 
adverse change in the activities related to these investments, due 
to internal or external factors related to the financial and economic 
environment in the markets where Capgemini operates, may 
significantly affect the value in use of the subsidiaries investments 
and require the recognition of an impairment. Such change would 
require reassessing the relevance of the assumptions used to 
determine value in use and the reasonableness and consistency 
of the calculation method.
We believe that measurement of the value of investments in 
subsidiaries is a key audit matter given the significant amount of 
subsidiaries investments reported in the financial statements and 
their sensitivity to assumptions made by Management.our audit approach
Our work included:
 —  gaining an understanding of and assessing the impairment 
testing process implemented by Management;
 —  when value in use of equity investments is assessed using the 
discounted cash flow method:
 –  assessing that the model used to calculate value in use is 
appropriate,
 –  analyzing the consistency of cash flow forecasts with the 
latest estimates by Management presented to the Board 
of Directors,
 –  comparing the 2023 earnings forecasts used for prior 
year impairment testing with actual results,
 –  comparing cash flow forecasts for financial years 2024 
to 2028 with the business plans used for prior year 
impairment testing,
 –  interviewing financial and/or operational staff  
responsible for the main geographic areas to analyze 
the main assumptions used in the strategic plans and 
corroborate the assumptions with the explanations 
obtained,
 –  assessing the methods used to calculate discount rates 
applied to estimated future cash flows expected, as well 
as long -term growth rates used to project the last year 
expected cash flows to infinity; comparing these rates 
with market data or external sources and recalculating 
the rates based on our own data sources,
 –  comparing net cash/debt and deferred taxes with 
underlying data used to prepare the Company’s 
consolidated financial statements;
 —  when value in use of equity investments is measured based 
on the proportionate share of net equity:
 –  assessing the appropriateness of the valuation method used,
 –  assessing the documentation used to measure value in use,
 –  assessing the appropriateness of the financial information 
provided in the notes to the annual financial statements.
Our firms’ valuation specialists were involved in this work.

FInAnCIAL InF orMATIon
2023 Financial statements
365
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI5Specific verifications
We have also performed, in accordance with professional standards applicable in France, the specific verifications required by laws 
and regulations.
Information given in the management report and in the other documents with respect to the financial position 
and the financial statements provided to the Shareholders
We have no matters to report as to the fair presentation and the consistency with the financial statements of the information given in 
the management report of the Board of Director and in the other documents with respect to the financial position and the financial 
statements provided to the Shareholders.
We attest the fair presentation and the consistency with the financial statements of the information relating to the payment deadlines 
mentioned in Article D. 441 -6 of the French Commercial Code ( Code de commerce ). 
report on Corporate Governance
We attest that the Board of Directors’ report on Corporate Governance sets out the information required by Articles L. 225 -37-4, 
L. 22 -10-10 and L. 22 -10-9 of the French Commercial Code ( Code de commerce ).
Concerning the information given in accordance with the requirements of Article L. 22 -10-9 of the French Commercial Code ( Code de 
commerce ) relating to remunerations and benefits received by the Directors and any other commitments made in their favour, we have 
verified its consistency with the financial statements, or with the underlying information used to prepare these financial statements 
and, where applicable, with the information obtained by your company from controlling and controlled companies. Based on these 
procedures, we attest the accuracy and fair presentation of this information.
other information
In accordance with French law, we have verified that the required information concerning the identity of the shareholders or holders 
of the voting rights has been properly disclosed in the Management report.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
Format of the presentation of the financial statements intended to be included in the Annual Financial Report
We have also verified, in accordance with the professional standard applicable in France relating to the procedures performed by the 
statutory auditor relating to the annual and consolidated financial statements presented in the European single electronic format, 
that the presentation of the financial statements intended to be included in the Annual Financial Report mentioned in Article L. 451 -1-
2, I of the French Monetary and Financial Code ( Code monétaire et financier ), prepared under the responsibility of the Chief Executive 
Officer, complies with the single electronic format defined in the European Delegated Regulation No. 2019/815 of December 17th 2018.
Based on our work, we conclude that the presentation of Capgemini SE’s statutory financial statements to be included in the Annual 
Financial Report complies, in all material aspects, with the single electronic reporting format.
We have no responsibility to verify that the financial statements that will ultimately be included by your company in the Annual Financial 
Report filed with the AMF are in agreement with those on which we have performed our work.
Appointment of the s tatutory auditors
We were appointed as Statutory auditors of Capgemini SE by the Annual General Meeting held on May 24th, 1996 for PricewaterhouseCoopers 
Audit and on May 20th, 2020 for Mazars.
As at December 31st, 2023, PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit and Mazars were in the 28th year and 4th year of total uninterrupted 
engagement respectively.
Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged with Governance for the Financial Statements
Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in accordance with French accounting 
principles and for such internal control as management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that 
are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, management is responsible for assessing the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, 
disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless it is expected to 
liquidate the Company or to cease operations.
The Audit and Risk Committee is responsible for monitoring the financial reporting process and the effectiveness of internal control 
and risks management systems and where applicable, its internal audit, regarding the accounting and financial reporting procedures.
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors.

FInAnCIAL InF orMATIon
2023 Financial statements
366
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT5Statutory auditors Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements
objectives and audit approach
Our role is to issue a report on the financial statements. Our objective is to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial 
statements as a whole are free from material misstatement. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that 
an audit conducted in accordance with professional standards will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements 
can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to 
influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
As specified in Article L. 821 -55 of the French Commercial Code ( Code de commerce ), our statutory audit does not include assurance on 
the viability of the Company or the quality of management of the affairs of the Company.
As part of an audit conducted in accordance with professional standards applicable in France, the statutory auditor exercises professional 
judgment throughout the audit and furthermore:
 —  identifies and assesses the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, designs 
and performs audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtains audit evidence considered to be sufficient and appropriate 
to provide a basis for his opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one 
resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal 
control; 
 —  obtains an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the 
circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the internal control; 
 —  evaluates the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures 
made by management in the financial statements; 
 —  assesses the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence 
obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Company’s 
ability to continue as a going concern. This assessment is based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of his audit report. 
however, future events or conditions may cause the Company to cease to continue as a going concern. If the statutory auditor 
concludes that a material uncertainty exists, there is a requirement to draw attention in the audit report to the related disclosures 
in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are not provided or inadequate, to modify the opinion expressed therein; 
 —  evaluates the overall presentation of the financial statements and assesses whether these statements represent the underlying 
transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
report to the Audit and r isk Committee
We submit a report to the Audit and Risk Committee, which includes in particular a description of the scope of the audit and the audit 
program implemented, as well as the results of our audit. We also report, if any, significant deficiencies in internal control regarding 
the accounting and financial reporting procedures that we have identified.
Our report to the Audit and Risk Committee includes the risks of material misstatement that, in our professional judgment, were of 
most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and which are therefore the key audit matters that we 
are required to describe in this report.
We also provide the Audit and Risk Committee with the declaration provided for in Article 6 of Regulation (EU) No. 537/2014, confirming 
our independence within the meaning of the rules applicable in France such as they are set in particular by Articles L. 821 -27 to L. 821 -34 of 
the French Commercial Code ( Code de commerce ) and in the French Code of Ethics ( Code de déontologie ) for Statutory auditors. Where 
appropriate, we discuss with the Audit and Risk Committee the risks that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, 
and the related safeguards.
The s tatutory auditors
Courbevoie and Neuilly -sur-Seine, February 19, 2024
Mazars PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit
Dominique Muller
PartnerAnne-Laure Rousselou
PartnerItto El Hariri
PartnerRomain Dumont
Partner

FInAnCIAL InF orMATIon
2023 Financial statements
367
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI5546  Statutory auditors’ special report on regulated agreements
This is a free translation into English of the Statutory auditors’ report on regulated agreements issued in French and it is provided solely for the 
convenience of English speaking users.
This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional auditing standards applicable 
in France.
Shareholders’ Meeting held to approve the financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2023
To the Shareholders’ Meeting of the Capgemini SE company,
In our capacity as Statutory auditors of Capgemini SE, we hereby report to you on regulated agreements.
It is our responsibility to report to shareholders, based on the information provided to us, on the main terms, conditions and reasons 
underlying company’s interest of agreements that have been disclosed to us or that we may have identified as part of our engagement, 
without commenting on their relevance or substance or identifying any undisclosed agreements. Under the provisions of Article 
R. 225 -31 of the French Commercial Code ( Code de commerce ), it is the responsibility of the shareholders to determine whether the 
agreements are appropriate and should be approved.
Where applicable, it is also our responsibility to provide shareholders with the information required by Article R. 225 -31 of the French 
Commercial Code in relation to the performance during the year of agreements already approved by the Shareholders’ Meeting.
We performed the procedures that we deemed necessary in accordance with the professional guidance issued by the French Institute 
of Statutory auditors ( Compagnie nationale des commissaires aux comptes  or CNCC) relating to this engagement.
Agreements submitted to the approval of the Shareholders’ Meeting
Agreements authorized during the last year
We have been informed of no agreement authorized during the last year and requiring the approval of the Shareholders’ Meeting by 
virtue of article L. 225 -38 of the French Commercial Code.
Agreements previously approved by the Shareholders’ Meeting
We have not been informed of any agreement already approved by the Shareholders’ Meeting in prior years and which remained 
current during the last year.
The s tatutory auditors
Courbevoie and Neuilly -sur-Seine, February 19, 2024
Mazars PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit
Dominique Muller
PartnerAnne-Laure Rousselou
PartnerItto El Hariri
PartnerRomain Dumont
Partner

FInAnCIAL InF orMATIon
Other financial and accounting information
368
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT555 Other financial and accounting information
551 Five ‑years financial summary
(in thousand of euros) 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 
I – SHARE CAPITAL AT YEAR-END      
Share capital 1,354,764 1,350,279 1,379,132 1,388,657 1,380,865 
Number of common shares outstanding 169,345,499 168,784,837 172,391,524 173,582,113 172,608,113 
Maximum number of future shares to be created: - - - - - 
 —  through exercise of equity warrants 5,247,003 5,318,777 5,744,604 6,261,667 6,420,505 
 —  through conversion fo convertible bonds - - - - - 
II – OPERATIONS AND RESULTS OF  
THE CURRENT YEAR      
Operating revenue 446,652 477,631 531,411 645,859 675,392 
Operating revenue and financial revenue 978,297 821,656 1,278,608 1,640,582 1,953,901 
Income before taxes, amortization and provisions 488,228 268,426 665,016 723,258 665,434 
Income tax 28,886 21,118 11,979 54,038 41,729 
Net income/(losses) 490,231 181,627 627,916 429,792 804,593 
Distributed income 225,690 328,498 408,434 558,813 586,868(1) 
III – EARNINGS PER SHARE (in euros)       
Earnings after taxes,
but before amortization and provisions 2.71 1.47 3.79 3.86 3.61 
Net earnings 2.89 1.08 3.64 2.48 4.66 
Dividend per share 1.35 1.95 2.40 3.25 3.40(1) 
IV – EMPLOYEE DATA
Capgemini SE does not have any employeesAverage number of employee during the year
Total payroll
Total benefits
(1) Subject to approval by the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 16, 2024

369
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI661 ——  CAPGEMINI SHARE CAPITAL  370
611		Share	capital	(amount,	table	of	movements	and	delegations	of	authority)	 370
612   Financial authorizations 371
613   Other share equivalents outstanding 373
614   Employee shareholders 373
615   Potential total dilution resulting from access to the Company’s share capital 375
62 ——  CAPGEMINI AND THE STOCK MARKET  375
63 ——  CURRENT SHARE OWNERSHIP AND VOTING RIGHTS  378
64 ——  SHARE BUYBACK PROGRAM  380
641   Authorization to buy back the Company’s shares 380
642   Description of the share buyback program to be authorized by the Shareholders’ Meeting 
of	May 16,	2024	 380
65 ——  COMMUNICATION WITH SHAREHOLDERS  381CAPGEMINI AND ITS 
SHAREHOLDERS

CAPGeMInI And ITs shArehoLders
Capgemini share capital
370
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT661  Capgemini share capital
611  Share capital (amount, table of movements and delegations of authority)
Share capital amount
At December 31, 2023, the Company’s share capital amounted to €1,380,864,904 divided into 172,608,113 fully paid -up ordinary shares 
with a par value of €8 each.
Shares may be held in either registered or bearer form, at the shareholder’s discretion.
Changes in the Company’s share capital over the past five years
 number of sharesshare capital  
(in euros)  Additional  
paid -in capital  
(in euros)  
AT DECEMBER 31, 2019 169,345,499 1,354,763,992 5,991,827,156
Share capital reduction:    
 —  Cancelation of treasury shares (3,664,862) (29,318,896) (352,626,438)
Share capital increase:    
 —  Shares issued reserved for employees 3,000,000 24,000,000 254,790,000
 —  Issue costs for shares, net of taxes - - (1,151,051)
 —  Shares issued after the vesting of free shares 104,200 833,600 (833,600)
AT DECEMBER 31, 2020 168,784,837 1,350,278,696 5,892,006,067
Share capital increase:    
 —  Shares issued reserved for employees 3,606,687 28,853,496 560,334,892
 —  Issue costs for shares, net of taxes - - (1,221,986)
AT DECEMBER 31, 2021 172,391,524 1,379,132,192 6,451,118,973
Share capital increase:    
 —  Shares issued reserved for employees 3,500,000 28,000,000 480,375,000
 —  Issue costs for shares, net of taxes - - (996,276)
Share capital reduction:    
 —  Cancelation of treasury shares (2,309,411) (18,475,288) (382,085,349)
AT DECEMBER 31, 2022 173,582,113 1,388,656,904 6,548,412,348
Share capital increase:    
 —  Shares issued reserved for employees 3,200,000 25,600,000 440,992,000
 —  Issue costs for shares, net of taxes - - (1,296,789)
 Share capital reduction:    
 —  Cancelation of treasury shares (4,174,000) (33,392,000) (663,938,062)
AT DECEMBER 31, 2023 172,608,113 1,380,864,904 6,324,169,497

CAPGeMInI And ITs shArehoLders
Capgemini share capital
371
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI6612  Financial authorizations
Authorizations granted by the Shareholders’ Meeting to the Board of Directors to increase share capital
The following table summarizes (pursuant to Articles L. 225 -37-4 3 of the French Commercial Code) authorizations still in effect and 
those that have expired since the last Shareholders’ Meeting.
Purpose of the authorizationMaximum  
amount  (1) (2)  
(in euros)  Authorization  
date and  
resolution  
numberexpiry  
date used during 2023
a)  Purchase by the Company of 
its own shares under a share 
buyback program (3)  10% of the share 
capital05/16/2023 (13th ) 11/16/2024 5,218,915 shares were purchased under 
the share buyback program (excluding 
the liquidity contract) at an average price 
of €169.28
As part of the liquidity contract:
a)  1,713,144 shares were purchased at 
an average price of €170.17
b)  1,768,353 shares were sold at an 
average price of €170.55
c)  At December 31, 2023, the liquidity 
account balance comprises 
32,380 shares and approximately 
€27 million in cash and monetary UCITS.
b)  Cancelation of treasury  
shares10% of share 
capital per 
24-month period05/19/2022 (20th ) 07/19/2024 4,174,000 shares were canceled for a 
value of €695,162,881 (excluding costs), 
by decision of the Board of Directors on 
12/06/2023
c)  Share capital increase by 
capitalizing additional  
paid -in capital, reserves, 
profit or other eligible 
amounts€1.5 billion  
(par value)05/19/2022 (21st ) 07/19/2024 This authorization was not used in 2023
d)  Share capital increase 
by issuing shares and/or 
securities granting access  
to the share capital  
with retention of P sr 
(Pre-emptive Subscription 
Rights)€540 million  
(par value) 
€18.2 billion  
(debt instruments 
granting access to 
share capital issue 
amount)05/19/2022 (22nd ) 07/19/2024 This authorization was not used in 2023
e)  Share capital increase 
by issuing shares and/or 
securities granting access  
to the share capital,  
with cancelation of P sr,  
by public offering other 
than private placement  €135 million  
(par value) 
€6.1 billion  
(debt instruments 
granting access to 
share capital issue 
amount)05/19/2022 (23rd ) 07/19/2024 This authorization was not used in 2023
f)  Share capital increase 
by issuing shares and/or 
securities granting access  
to the share capital  
with cancelation of P sr,  
by private placement €135 million  
(par value) 
€6.1 billion  
(debt instruments 
granting access to 
share capital issue 
amount)05/19/2022 (24th ) 07/19/2024 This authorization was not used in 2023
g)  Setting the issue price of 
shares in the context of  
a share capital increase  
with cancelation of P sr €135 million  
(par value) 
€6.1 billion  
(debt instruments 
granting access to 
share capital issue 
amount)   
10% of share 
capital per 
12-month period05/19/2022 (25th ) 07/19/2024 This authorization was not used in 2023

CAPGeMInI And ITs shArehoLders
Capgemini share capital
372
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT6h)  Increase in the number of 
shares to be issued in case 
of a share capital increase in 
the context of resolutions 
(d) to (f) (Greenshoe)  
with and without P sr Within the limit 
of the ceiling 
applicable to the 
initial increase05/19/2022 (26th ) 07/19/2024 This authorization was not used in 2023
i)  Share capital increase 
by issuing shares and/
or securities granting 
access to the share capital 
in consideration for 
contributions in kind€135 million  
(par value) 
€6.1 billion  
(debt instruments 
granting access to 
share capital issue 
amount)  
10% of share 
capital05/19/2022 (27th ) 07/19/2024 This authorization was not used in 2023
j)  Grant of performance shares 1.2% of the share 
capital05/16/2023 (14th ) 11/16/2024 1,872,500 performance shares 
(€14,980,000 par value) were granted 
to 5,038 beneficiaries by decision of the 
Board of Directors on 11/06/2023
k)  Share capital increase 
by issuing shares and/
or securities granting 
access to the share capital 
with cancelation of P sr, 
reserved for members of 
Group savings plans€28 million  
(par value) (2) 05/16/2023 (15th ) 11/16/2024 3,066,521 shares were issued pursuant 
to this resolution in the context of the 
2023 employee share ownership plan, 
representing a par value amount of 
€24,532,168
l)  Share capital increase 
by issuing shares and/
or securities granting 
access to the share capital 
with cancelation of P sr, 
reserved for employees 
of certain non-French 
subsidiaries€14 million  
(par value) (2) 05/16/2023 (16th ) 11/16/2024 133,479 shares were issued pursuant 
to this resolution in the context of the 
2023 employee share ownership plan, 
representing a par value amount of 
€1,067,832
(1) Recap of overall limits: a maximum par value amount of €540 million and a maximum debt instruments granting access to share capital issue amount of €18.2 billion for all 
issues with and without pre -emptive subscription rights; issues performed pursuant to j), k) and l) above are not included in these general limits.
(2) Total share capital increases decided pursuant to k) and l) are subject to a maximum par value amount of €28 million.
(3) Shares purchased in the course of 2023 but prior to the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of May 16, 2023 were acquired pursuant to the 18th resolution adopted by the 
Shareholders’ Meeting of May 19, 2022.
Use of authorizations during 2023
Pursuant to the authorization granted to the Board of Directors 
by the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of May 19, 2022 in the 
eighteenth resolution and then by the Ordinary Shareholders’ 
Meeting of May 16, 2023 in the thirteenth resolution, 5,218,915 shares 
were purchased under the share buyback program (excluding 
the liquidity contract) at an average price of €169.28. Under the 
liquidity contract, 1,713,144 shares were purchased at an average 
price of €170.17 and 1,768,353 shares were sold at an average price 
of €170.55. At December 31, 2023, the liquidity account balance 
comprises 32,380 shares and approximately €27 million in cash 
and monetary UCITS.
Furthermore, by virtue of the powers granted to it by the Extraordinary 
Shareholders’ Meeting of May 19, 2022, in its twentieth resolution, 
the Board of Directors decided on December 6, 2023 to cancel 
4,174,000 shares for a value of €695,162,881 (excluding costs).
Pursuant to the authorization granted by the Extraordinary 
Shareholders’ Meeting of May 16, 2023 in the fourteenth 
resolution, the Board of Directors decided, on November 6, 2023, to award 1,872,500 shares subject to performance conditions to 
5,038 beneficiaries (employees and corporate officers of French and 
non-French subsidiaries and members of the Executive Committee 
including the Chief Executive Officer).
Finally, the Board of Directors decided on June 14 and 15, 2023, 
to make use of the fifteenth and sixteenth resolutions adopted 
by the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of May 16, 2023, to 
increase the share capital of the Company in favor of employees. 
In this context, 3,200,000 new shares were issued under the 
tenth employee share ownership plan. The share capital increase, 
representing a par value amount of €25,600,000, was completed 
on December 19, 2023.
Renewal of authorizations at the 2024 Shareholders’ 
Meeting
All the delegations still in effect described above will be submitted 
for renewal at the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 16, 2024.
For further details, please refer to Chapter 7 of this Universal 
Registration Document.

CAPGeMInI And ITs shArehoLders
Capgemini share capital
373
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI6613  Other share equivalents outstanding
There are no other securities granting access to the share capital outstanding at December 31, 2023.
614  Employee shareholders
Share subscription or purchase plans
Capgemini no longer grants stock options. The last stock option 
plan expired in June 2013.
Performance share grants
Performance share grant in 2023
The Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of May 16, 2023 
authorized the Board of Directors in its fourteenth resolution to 
grant performance shares to employees and corporate officers of 
the Company and its French and non-French subsidiaries, during a 
period of eighteen months commencing May 16, 2023. The number 
of shares granted (existing and to be issued) was not to exceed 1.2% 
of the share capital at the date of the Board of Directors’ decision to 
grant such shares (this maximum number of shares being referred 
to hereafter by the letter “N”). Up to a maximum of 10% of “N”, 
these performance shares could be granted to Executive Corporate 
Officers of the Company, it being specified that the portion of 
shares to be held by them until the end of their term of office is 
set by the Board of Directors. By exception, and for an amount not 
exceeding 15% of “N”, shares could be granted to employees of 
the Company and its French and non-French subsidiaries, excluding 
members of the Group Management team (the “Group Executive 
Committee”), without performance conditions.
Pursuant to this authorization, the Board of Directors’ meeting 
of November 6, 2023 decided to issue 1,872,500 performance 
shares to 5,038 managers and employees of the Group, including 
37 members of the Group Executive Committee (excluding Executive 
Corporate Officers) and Mr. Aiman Ezzat, Chief Executive Officer.
The external performance condition is based on the comparative 
performance of the Capgemini share against the average 
performance of a basket of comparable companies or indexes 
over at least three years.
Since the performance share grant of 2012, the internal performance 
condition for all performance share plans is based on organic free 
cash flow generation over a three -year period, reflecting the Board 
of Directors’ desire to prioritize long -term goals in the context of 
these grants.
A Corporate Social and Environmental Responsibility performance 
condition was added for the first time in 2018. It comprises two 
indicators, a diversity indicator and an environmental performance 
indicator.
The Board of Directors also wished to allow outperformance to 
be taken into account by defining targets conditioning 110% of 
the relative grant for each of the performance conditions, while 
capping the total percentage of shares vested after recognition 
of all performance conditions at 100% of the initial grant.
Accordingly, the total number of shares that will vest to beneficiaries 
at the end of the vesting period will be equal to:
 —  a number of shares equal to 40% of the number indicated 
in the grant notification multiplied by the percentage 
achievement of the chosen external performance target: 
performance of the Capgemini share compared with the 
average performance measured over an identical three year period of a basket of securities and indexes containing shares 
of nine listed companies operating in the same sector as the 
Group in a minimum of five countries in which the Group is 
firmly established (Accenture/Alten/Indra/Tieto/Atos/CGI 
Group/Sopra Steria/Infosys and Cognizant) and the Euro 
Stoxx Technology 600 index and the CAC 40 index. No shares 
will vest if the relative performance of the Capgemini share 
is less than 100% of the average performance of the basket; 
50% of the Initial Allocation will vest if the performance of 
the Capgemini share is equal to the average performance 
of the basket; 100% of the Initial Allocation will vest if the 
performance of the Capgemini share is equal to 110% of the 
average performance of the basket and 110% of the target 
will vest if the performance is at least equal to 120% of the 
average performance of the basket; 
 —  a number of shares equal to 40% of the number indicated in the 
grant notification, multiplied by the percentage achievement 
of the chosen internal performance target: published and 
audited organic free cash flow for the three -year cumulative 
period from 2023 to 2025 compared with a minimum 
objective of €5,400 million; 100% of the Initial Allocation will 
vest for organic free cash flow generation of €5,800 million. 
A maximum of 110% of the Initial Allocation will vest for 
organic free cash flow generation of €6,200 million or more; 
 —  and finally, a number of shares equal to 20% of the 
number indicated in the grant notification multiplied by 
the percentage achievement of the Corporate, Social 
and Environmental Responsibility performance target: 
(i)  increase over a three -year period in the percentage 
of women in Executive leader positions, with a minimum 
objective of 28.5%, a target grant for an increase of 30% and 
a maximum grant of 110% of the target for an increase of at 
least 31.5% and (ii) a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions 
of at least 85% by 2025 compared with 2019, with a target 
grant for a reduction of 100%.
The vesting period was set by the Board of Directors at three years 
for beneficiaries tax -resident and not tax -resident in France. In 
addition, a one -year minimum holding period for vested shares 
following the vesting period was set for beneficiaries tax -resident 
in France. Furthermore, the Chief Executive Officer is required to 
hold 50% of vested shares until the end of his term of office, if 
the number of shares held by him valued at the share price at the 
vesting date is less than one years’ theoretical salary. 33% of vested 
shares must be held if the valuation of shares held is between one 
years’ theoretical salary and two years’ theoretical salary and 5% 
of vested shares must be held if this valuation exceeds two years’ 
theoretical salary.
Out of a total of 1,872,500 shares, 45,960 shares (i.e., 2.45%) were 
granted without performance conditions. No Group Executive 
Committee members benefited from this grant.
In accordance with the recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF Code, 
performance share grants are undertaken at the same calendar 
periods and are decided by either the Board of Directors’ meeting 
held at the end of July or at the following meeting generally held 
at the beginning of the last quarter of the calendar year, as has 
been the case in the past six years.

CAPGeMInI And ITs shArehoLders
Capgemini share capital
374
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT6vesting of performance shares in 2023
On October 2, 2019, pursuant to the authorization granted by the 
Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of May 23, 2019, the Board 
of Directors granted 1,523,015 shares subject to performance and 
presence conditions.
The performance shares were granted subject to a vesting period 
of three years for beneficiaries tax -resident in France and four years 
for beneficiaries not tax -resident in France. The grant therefore 
vested to beneficiaries not tax -resident in France on October 2, 2023.
This grant was subject to internal and external performance conditions. 
These conditions were detailed in the resolution presented to and 
adopted by the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting which authorized 
the Board of Directors to grant the performance shares.
The financial performance condition concerned organic free cash 
flow generated over the three -year period, 2019, 2020 and 2021.
The Corporate, Social and Environmental Responsibility performance 
condition concerned (i) the increase over a three -year period in 
the percentage of women in the Group’s Vice-President inflow 
population and (ii) the percentage reduction in greenhouse gas 
emissions/employee in 2021 compared with 2015.
The external performance condition was assessed based on the 
performance of the Capgemini share compared with a basket of 
comparable companies in our business sector in at least five different 
countries, as follows: Accenture, Atos, Indra, CGI Group, Cognizant, 
Infosys, Sopra Steria, Tieto and the Euro Stoxx Technology 600 
and CAC40 indexes. For this grant, no shares vest in respect of the 
external performance condition if the relative performance of the 
Capgemini share is less than 100% of the average performance of 
the basket over a three -year period, while 50% of shares vest if 
this performance is equal to that of the basket and 100% of shares 
vest if this performance is 110% or more of that of the basket.
The internal performance conditions for this plan were satisfied 
and even surpassed, and the external performance conditions were 
satisfied 105.8%. The relative performance of the Capgemini SE 
share compared with that of the basket of comparable companies 
over a three -year period was between 115% and 116%. As the 
grant is capped at 100% of the Initial Allocation, 839,512 shares 
vested to beneficiaries not tax -resident in France in October 2023.
In addition, on October 7, 2020, pursuant to the authorization 
granted by the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of May 20, 
2020, the Board of Directors granted 1,900,000 shares subject to 
performance and presence conditions.
The performance shares were granted subject to a vesting period 
of three years for beneficiaries tax -resident in France and four years 
for beneficiaries not tax -resident in France. The grant therefore 
vested to beneficiaries tax -resident in France on October 7, 2023.This grant was subject to internal and external performance conditions. 
These conditions were detailed in the resolution presented to and 
adopted by the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting which authorized 
the Board of Directors to grant the performance shares.
The financial performance condition concerned organic free cash 
flow generated over the three -year period, 2020, 2021 and 2022.
The Corporate, Social and Environmental Responsibility performance 
condition concerned (i) the increase over a three -year period in 
the percentage of women in the Group’s Vice-President inflow 
population and (ii) the percentage reduction in greenhouse gas 
emissions/employee in 2022 compared with 2019.
The external performance condition was assessed based on the 
performance of the Capgemini share compared with a basket of 
comparable companies in our business sector in at least five different 
countries, as follows: Accenture, Atos, Indra, CGI Group, Cognizant, 
Infosys, Sopra Steria, Tieto and the Euro Stoxx Technology 600 
and CAC40 indexes. For this grant, no shares vest in respect of the 
external performance condition if the relative performance of the 
Capgemini share is less than 100% of the average performance of 
the basket over a three -year period, while 50% of shares vest if this 
performance is equal to that of the basket and 100% of shares vest 
if this performance is 110% or more of that of the basket. 110% of 
shares will vest (excluding to Executive Corporate Officers) if the 
performance is at least equal to 120% of the basket.
The internal performance conditions for this plan were satisfied 
110% and the external performance condition was satisfied 110%. 
The relative performance of the Capgemini SE share compared 
with that of the basket of comparable companies over a three -year 
period was more than 120%. However, as the grant is capped at 
100% of the Initial Allocation, 516,700 shares vested to beneficiaries 
tax-resident in France in October 2023. At December 31, 2023, 
there remained 1,704,040 shares that could potentially vest to 
beneficiaries not tax -resident in France if they satisfy the condition 
of presence at the beginning of October 2024.
International employee share ownership system
As part of the employee incentive policy and in order to align 
employee interests with those of shareholders and also stabilize the 
Company’s share capital, the Group wishes to make the Company’s 
share capital accessible to a large number of employees, in particular 
through employee share ownership plans.
First put in place in 2009, these employee share ownership 
transactions are now proposed annually to Group employees since 
2017. They ultimately aim to increase employee share ownership to 
an objective of between 8% and 10% of the Company’s share capital 
and to propose this offer to as many Group employees as possible 
(97% of employees were eligible for the most recent plan in 2023).

CAPGeMInI And ITs shArehoLders
Capgemini and the stock market
375
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI6Current employee share ownership plans at December 31, 2023
 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 
Number of shares issued 2.75 million 3 million 3.6 million 3.5 million 3.2 million 
Amount subscribed (€ million)  254 279 589 508 467 
Number of employees that 
subscribed to shares 33,700 41,000 49,100 50,687 50,312 
Percentage of eligible 
employees that subscribed to 
shares 16% 16% 17.2% 15.3% 15.4% 
Number of countries in which 
Group employees subscribed 
shares, directly or indirectly via 
an Employee Savings Mutual 
Fund (FCPE) 25 26 29 29 32 
Percentage of eligible 
employees 98% 96% 96% 97% 97% 
Shareholders’ Meeting 
authorization  (1) May 23, 2019 
(maximum of 
3 million shares)May 20, 2020 
(maximum of 
3 million shares)May 20, 2021 
(maximum of 
4 million shares)May 19, 2022 
(maximum of 
3.5 million shares)May 16, 2023 
(maximum of 
3.5 million shares) 
(1) Authorization granted to the Board of Directors by the Shareholders’ Meeting to issue a maximum number of shares by way of a share capital increase reserved for 
employees and corporate officers of the Company and its French and non-French subsidiaries who are members of the Capgemini group Company Savings Plan.
Overall and pursuant to the provisions of Article L. 225 -102 of 
the French Commercial Code, the Board of Directors informs you 
that approximately 100,000 employees and corporate officers of the Company (and related companies) together held 8.9% of the 
Company’s share capital at December 31, 2023.
615  Potential total dilution resulting from access to the Company’s share 
capital
At December 31, 2023, the potential dilution represented by performance and free share grant plans was 3.6%.
62  Capgemini and the stock market
At December 31, 2023, Capgemini SE’s share capital comprised 
172,608,113 shares (ISIN code: FR0000125338). Capgemini SE 
shares are listed on the “Euronext Paris” market (compartment 
A) and are eligible for the SRD deferred settlement system of the 
Paris Stock Exchange.
The Capgemini share is notably included in the Euronext CAC 40 
and Euronext 100 indexes, and in the European indexes Euro Stoxx, 
Stoxx Europe 600 and Stoxx Europe 600 Technology. The Group’s 
performance as a responsible company is also recognized by its inclusion in various indexes based on ESG (Environment, Social and 
Governance) criteria, such as the CAC 40 ESG, CAC SBT 1.5, Dow 
Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) Europe, Euro Stoxx Global ESG 
Leaders and Bloomberg Gender Equality Index (GEI).
Between January 1 and December 31, 2023, Capgemini recorded 
a 21.0% increase in its share price, to end the year at €188.75.
Capgemini has a stock market capitalization of €31.7 billion at 
December 31, 2023, compared with €27.1 billion at December 31, 
2022.
Capgemini share ownership structure at the end of 2023
Board members and 
Group employees9.1%
Institutional
investors84.0%International71.0%
France13.0%Individual shareholders6.2%Treasury shares0.7%

CAPGeMInI And ITs shArehoLders
Capgemini and the stock market
376
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT62024 provisional financial calendar
2024 first -quarter revenues: April 30, 2024
2024 first -half results: July 26, 2024
2024 third -quarter revenues: October 30, 2024
2024 annual results: February 18, 2025
This provisional calendar is provided for information purposes only and may subsequently be amended.
Share performance – from December 31, 2021 to February 29, 2024 (in euros)
240260
220
200
180
160
140
120Capgemini+4.3%CAC 40+10.8%
STOXX
Europe 600+1.4%
12/31/21 03/31/22 06/30/22 09/30/22 12/31/22 03/31/23 06/30/23 09/30/23 12/31/23
Source: Bloomberg.
Monthly trading volumes on Euronext Paris – from January 2022 to February 2024 (in millions of shares)
01
20220215
03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 01
202302 01
202402 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 1212.5
10
7.5
2.55
Source: Bloomberg.

CAPGeMInI And ITs shArehoLders
Capgemini and the stock market
377
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI6Share price and trading volumes
The following table presents trading in the Company’s shares over the past 24 months:
Monthnumber of 
trading daysshare price (in euros)  Trading volume 
number of shares 
value  
(in millions of euros)  high Average Low Total Average  
(daily)  
March 2022 23 204.70 184.98 164.20 10,833,200 471,009 2,004.0
April 2022 19 206.50 192.53 182.05 6,462,206 340,116 1,244.2
May 2022 22 195.90 182.27 174.05 7,112,964 323,317 1,296.5
June 2022 22 184.10 173.46 162.75 9,695,941 440,725 1,681.8
July 2022 21 185.80 166.23 153.80 7,440,290 354,300 1,236.8
August 2022 23 193.60 184.92 172.60 5,870,840 255,254 1,085.6
September 2022 22 184.70 166.71 152.30 8,106,370 368,471 1,351.4
October 2022 21 175.75 166.82 153.00 10,452,960 497,760 1,743.8
November 2022 22 183.15 172.19 157.30 9,364,673 425,667 1,612.5
December 2022 21 179.80 164.92 154.60 8,907,582 424,171 1,469.0
January 2023 22 177.80 168.67 157.15 7,592,232 345,101 1,280.6
February 2023 20 189.75 183.41 173.65 7,409,569 370,478 1,359.0
March 2023 23 182.70 171.15 162.60 9,088,544 395,154 1,555.5
April 2023 18 175.80 165.70 157.85 6,372,324 354,018 1,055.9
May 2023 22 168.50 161.46 152.25 8,281,404 376,427 1,337.2
June 2023 22 180.35 171.69 163.30 9,157,716 416,260 1,572.3
July 2023 21 180.45 172.52 161.20 7,173,545 341,597 1,237.6
August 2023 23 174.85 164.56 157.75 7,047,332 306,406 1,159.7
September 2023 21 174.05 167.72 159.85 6,867,523 327,025 1,151.8
October 2023 22 171.10 164.69 158.80 6,689,266 304,058 1,101.6
November 2023 22 190.15 177.55 163.15 8,238,697 374,486 1,462.7
December 2023 19 196.65 190.86 186.25 6,296,866 331,414 1,201.8
January 2024 22 210.30 196.13 181.95 7,755,239 352,511 1,521.0
February 2024 21 227.30 215.52 203.30 8,152,658 388,222 1,757.0
Source: Euronext.
Dividend payment policy
The Group has a historic dividend distribution policy that ensures 
a balance between the investments required for its development 
and the distribution of profits to shareholders. The payout ratio 
is approximately 35%. This ratio is defined as: dividend per share/
net profit (Group share) per share, based on the number of shares 
outstanding at December 31. Where exceptional items have been 
recognized, in particular non -cash items, net profit (Group share) 
may be restated for these items before applying the payout ratio.A dividend payment of € 3.40  per share is proposed for fiscal year 
2023.
Based on 172,608,113 shares outstanding at December 31, 2023, 
the total Capgemini dividend distribution in respect of fiscal year 
2023 would be € 587 million. The effective dividend distribution will 
depend on the number of treasury shares held at the ex -dividend 
date and any shares issued or canceled prior to this date.

CAPGeMInI And ITs shArehoLders
Current share ownership and voting rights
378
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT6Dividend payout
Year ended December 31dividend  
per share  
(in euros)  number  
of shares  
(at December 31)  dividend distribution
ex-dividend  
dateIn millions  
of euros% of net 
profit
2012 1.00 161,700,362 162 44% June 3, 2013
2013 1.10 160,317,818 176 40% May 16, 2014
2014 1.20 163,592,949 196 34% May 18, 2015
2015 1.35 172,181,500 232 36% May 30, 2016
2016 1.55 171,564,265 266 36% May 22, 2017
2017 1.70 168,483,742 286 35% June 4, 2018
2018 1.70 167,293,730 284 36% June 5, 2019
2019  (1)  1.35 169,345,499 229 25% June 3, 2020
2020 1.95 168,784,837 329 35% June 2, 2021
2021 2.40 172,391,524 414 35% June 1, 2022
2022 3.25 173,582,113 564 35% May 30, 2023
2023  (2) 3.40 172,608,113 587 35%  May 29, 2024  
(1) On April 29, 2020, the Board of Directors decided to reduce by 29% the dividend from €1.90 to €1.35 per share. This dividend was approved by the Shareholders’ Meeting 
of May 20, 2020.
(2) Recommended dividend submitted to the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 16, 2024.
63  Current share ownership and voting rights
At December 31, 2023, the share capital amounted to €1,380,864,904 
(compared with €1,388,656,904 at December 31, 2022), divided 
into 172,608,113 fully paid -up shares with a par value of €8 each.The following share capital transactions were performed in 2023:
 —  cancelation of 4,174,000  treasury shares by decision of the 
Board of Directors on December 6, 2023; 
 —  share capital increase under the tenth employee share 
ownership plan (ESOP 2023) involving the issue of 
3,200,000 shares on December 19, 2023.
The following table presents the share ownership structure at the 
end of 2023. No shares carry double voting rights.
Breakdown of share ownership in the past three years
 At the end of 2021 At the end of 2022 At the end of 2023 
number  
of shares  
(millions)  %  
share 
capital%  
voting 
rightsnumber  
of shares  
(millions)  %  
share 
capital%  
voting 
rightsNumber 
of shares 
(millions)   %  
share 
capital  % 
voting 
rights 
Board members and Group 
employees 148 86 86 149 86 86 157 91 91 
Directors 0.3 0.2 0.2 0.3 0.2 0.2 0.3 0.2 0.2 
Employee shareholders 14.5 8.4 8.4 14.6 8.4 8.4 15.4 8.9 8.9 
Treasury shares 04 02 02 17 10 10 13 07 07 
Own shares - - - - - - - - - 
Public 157 2 912 912 157 0 904 904 1557 902 902 
Individual shareholders (1) 
(Bearer + Registered) 10.6 6.2 6.2 10.7 6.1 6.1 10.7 6.2 6.2
Institutional shareholders 146.6 85.0 85.0 146.3 84.3 84.3 145.0 84.0 84.0
TOTAL 1724 100 100 1736 100 100 1726 100 100 
(1) May include shares held by employees outside the employee share ownership plan.

CAPGeMInI And ITs shArehoLders
Current share ownership and voting rights
379
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI6Each share carries entitlement to one vote irrespective of whether 
the share is held in registered or bearer form.
It is also stated that at December 31, 2023, Capgemini SE held 
1,320,165 treasury shares (including 32,380 shares resulting from 
execution of the liquidity contract at December 31, 2023) and, in 
addition, that the Company does not hold any “own shares”.
At the end of 2023, the Company made an SRD 2 (Shareholders’ 
Rights Directive 2) request and conducted a share ownership 
study. It reflected that more than 36,000 institutional or individual 
shareholders were holding at least 50 shares each in bearer form. 
(1) See section 2.1.3 for more detailed information regarding CACIB shareholding.In addition, nearly 16,000 shareholders were holding shares in 
registered form at December 31, 2023.
Finally, approximately 100,000 employees own shares through the 
different Employee Share Ownership Plans for a total of 8.9% of 
the Company’s share capital at December 31, 2023, and shares held 
by members of the Board of Directors represent another 0.19% of 
the share capital at the same date.
Capgemini SE is not aware of any existing pledges on a significant 
portion of its share capital.
Crossing of legal thresholds
In accordance with Article L. 233 -7 and L. 233 -9 of the French Commercial Code, the Company was notified that the following legal 
thresholds were crossed between January 1 and December 31, 2023:
shareholderdate threshold 
crossednumber of 
shares% share  
capitalnumber of 
voting rights% voting  
rightsLegal 
threshold 
crosseddirection 
(above/below)
BlackRock, Inc. 01/11/2023 8,410,823 4.85% 8,410,823 4.85% 5% Below
01/23/2023 8,833,033 5.09% 8,833,033 5.09% 5% Above
01/30/2023 8,524,960 4.91% 8,524,960 4.91% 5% Below
02/06/2023 8,716,638 5.02% 8,716,638 5.02% 5% Above
03/10/2023 8,669,203 4.99% 8,669,203 4.99% 5% Below
03/13/2023 8,703,299 5.01% 8,703,299 5.01% 5% Above
03/14/2023 8,577,871 4.94% 8,577,871 4.94% 5% Below
03/20/2023 8,679,716 5.0004% 8,679,716 5.0004% 5% Above
03/21/2023 8,659,355 4.99% 8,659,355 4.99% 5% Below
03/23/2023 8,706,065 5.02% 8,706,065 5.02% 5% Above
03/24/2023 8,663,619 4.99% 8,663,619 4.99% 5% Below
03/27/2023 8,704,334 5.01% 8,704,334 5.01% 5% Above
07/14/2023 8,669,372 4.99% 8,669,372 4.99% 5% Below
07/17/2023 8,805,681 5.07% 8,805,681 5.07% 5% Above
07/18/2023 8,652,022 4.98% 8,652,022 4.98% 5% Below
Massachusetts 
Financial Services 
Company (MFS)09/15/2023 8,686,756 5.004% 8,686,756 5.004% 5% Above
09/18/2023 8,678,388 4.99% 8,678,388 4.99% 5% Below
09/19/2023 8,755,372 5.04% 8,755,372 5.04% 5% Above
The Capital Group 
Companies, Inc.02/14/2023 8,720,732 5.02% 8,720,732 5.02% 5% Above
At December 31, 2023, employee share ownership represented 
8.9% of the Company’s share capital and voting rights.
Crossing of thresholds pursuant to the bylaws
Article 10 of Capgemini SE’s bylaws requires shareholders to disclose 
the crossing, through an increase or a decrease, of each threshold 
of 1% of the Company’s share capital or voting rights, from the 
lower threshold of 5% to the threshold triggering a mandatory 
public offer in accordance with prevailing regulations.
Shareholders holding more than 5% of the share 
capital and voting rights
Pursuant to the provisions of Article L. 233 -13 of the French Code of 
Commerce and according to information received and disclosures made to the French Financial Markets Authority (AMF), as far as 
the Company is aware, no shareholders other than Amundi Asset 
Management, Crédit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank 
(CACIB)(1), FMR LLC, Massachusetts Financial Services Company 
(MFS) and The Capital Group Companies Inc ., hold directly or 
indirectly, alone or in concert, more than 5% of the Company’s 
share capital or voting rights as of March 15, 2024.
Shareholders’ agreements
There are no shareholder agreements or pacts in force.

CAPGeMInI And ITs shArehoLders
share buyback program
380
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT664  Share buyback program
641  Authorization to buy back the Company’s shares
(1) Including shares purchased or sold before March 1, 2024 but settled after that date.The Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of May 16, 2023 renewed the 
authorization granted to the Company to buy back its shares. This 
authorization was used in 2023 in connection with the liquidity 
contract entered into with Kepler Cheuvreux and more generally as 
part of the continued purchase by the Company of its own shares.
The liquidity contract seeks to improve the liquidity of the Capgemini 
share and to allow more regular quotations. In 2023, a total of 
1,713,144 shares were purchased on behalf of Capgemini SE, 
representing 0.99% of the share capital at December 31, 2023, 
at an average price of €170.17 per share. During the same period, 
1,768,353 Capgemini shares were sold, representing 1.02% of the 
share capital at December 31, 2023, at an average price of €170.55 per 
share. At the year -end, the liquidity account presented a balance 
of 32,380 shares (approximately 0.02% of the share capital) and 
approximately €27 million.
In addition, the Company continued to purchase its own shares 
in 2023. Excluding the liquidity contract, the Company held 
1,258,016 of its own shares at December 31, 2023, following the 
various transactions described below:
 —  purchase of 5,218,915  shares representing 3.02% of the 
share capital at December  31, 2023, at an average price of 
€169.28 per share; 
 —  transfer of 1,363,887  shares to employees under the free 
share grant plan; 
 —  cancelation of 4,174,000 shares.Out of the 5,218,915 shares purchased outside the liquidity contract 
in 2023, 2,018,915 shares were purchased under multi -year share 
buyback programs and 3,200,000 shares were purchased pursuant 
to a specific program to neutralize the dilutive impact of the Group 
ESOP 2023 employee share ownership plan.
1,216,562 shares were allocated to the grant or sale of shares to 
employees and/or corporate officers and 4,002,353 shares were 
allocated to cancelation.
Trading fees (excluding VAT) and the financial transaction tax 
totaled €2,870,470 in 2023.
At December 31, 2023, excluding the liquidity contract, out of 
the 1,258,016 treasury shares held, representing 0.73% of the 
Company’s share capital:
 —  455,663 shares were allocated to the grant or sale of shares 
to employees and/or corporate officers; and
 —  802,353 shares were allocated to cancelation.
Lastly, no treasury shares were reallocated between the various 
objectives in 2023.
642  Description of the share buyback program to be authorized by the 
Shareholders’ Meeting of May 16, 2024
Pursuant to Articles 241 -1 et seq.  of the Autorité des marchés financiers  
(AMF – the French Financial Market Authority) general regulations, 
the purpose of this Section is to describe the objectives and the 
terms of the share buyback program subject to the authorization 
of the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 16, 2024.
Legal Framework – date of the Shareholders’ 
Meeting called to authorize the share buyback 
program
This share buyback program takes place within the legal framework 
of Articles L. 225 -210 et seq.  and L. 22 -10-62 et seq.  of the French 
Commercial Code and Articles 241 -1 et seq.  of the AMF general 
regulations.
The May 16, 2024 Shareholders’ Meeting will be asked to authorize 
the implementation of this share buyback program.
Finally, pursuant to the provisions of Article 241 -2 II of the AMF 
general regulations, during the implementation of the buyback 
program, any change in the information contained in this program 
description will, as soon as practicable, be made available to the 
general public, in accordance with the provisions of Article 221 -3 of 
the AMF general regulations, notably by making it available on the 
Company’s website: www.capgemini.com.
Breakdown by objective of shares held
The 1,267,029 treasury shares (1) held at March 1, 2024 are allocated 
to the following objectives:
 —  9,053  shares to the objective of managing the secondary 
market or maintaining the liquidity of the Capgemini share 
by way of a liquidity contract signed with Kepler Cheuvreux 
on October 3, 2016;  —  455,623 shares to the objective of grant or sale of shares to 
employees and/or corporate officers; 
 —  802,353 shares to the objective of cancelation.
Objectives of the share buyback program and use of 
shares purchased
Capgemini intends to make use of the possibility to acquire its own 
shares, with the following objectives:
 —  the grant or sale of shares to employees and/or corporate 
officers (on the terms and by the methods provided by 
law), in particular with a view to the grant of free shares 
pursuant to the provisions of Articles L. 225 -197-1 et seq.  and 
L. 22 -10-59 et seq.  of the French Commercial Code, the grant 
or sale of shares to employees under the French statutory 
profit -sharing scheme or the implementation of any 
company or group savings plan (or similar plan) on the terms 
provided by law, in particular Articles L. 3332 -1 et seq.  of the 
French Labor Code, and generally, honoring all obligations 
relating to share option programs or other share grants to 
employees or corporate officers of the Company or a related 
company, or to permit the hedging of a structured employee 
share ownership plan by a bank, or entity controlled by a 
bank within the meaning of Article L.  233 -3  of the French 
Commercial Code, acting at the Company’s request; or
 —  the delivery of shares on the exercise of rights attached to 
securities granting access to the share capital by redemption, 
conversion, exchange, presentation of a warrant or any other 
means; or

CAPGeMInI And ITs shArehoLders
Communication with shareholders
381
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI6 —  the cancelation of some or all of the shares purchased; or
 —  the delivery of shares (in exchange, as payment, or otherwise) 
in connection with acquisitions, mergers, demergers or 
asset -for-share exchanges; or
 —  the management of the secondary market or maintenance 
of the liquidity of the Capgemini share by an investment 
services provider under a liquidity contract that complies 
with market practices accepted by the Autorité des marchés 
financiers  (AMF – the French Financial Markets Authority).
This program is also intended to enable the implementation of 
any market practice that may be permitted by the French Financial 
Markets Authority (AMF) and more generally the carrying out of 
any transaction that complies with prevailing regulations.
Proportion of share capital, number of shares and 
purchase price
 —  Maximum percentage of the share capital and maximum 
number of Capgemini shares that may be purchased: 
purchases of the Company’s own shares may be made such 
that, at the date of each purchase, the total number of 
shares acquired by the Company since the beginning of the 
buyback program (including the shares subject to the current 
purchase) does not exceed 10% of the shares comprising 
the Company’s share capital at that date  (1) (including 
transactions impacting the share capital and performed 
after the May  16, 2024 Combined Shareholders’ Meeting), 
it being stipulated that (i) the number of shares purchased 
with a view to their retention or presentation in a merger, 
demerger or asset -for-share exchange transaction may not 
exceed 5% of the Company’s share capital; and (ii) where the 
shares are repurchased to improve liquidity on the terms set 
out in the AMF general regulations, the number of shares 
taken into account in calculating the above 10% limit will 
be the number of shares purchased minus the number of 
shares resold during the authorization period. Pursuant to 
the law, the number of shares held at a given date may not 
exceed 10% of the Company’s share capital at that date. For 
illustrative purposes, at March  1, 2024, based on the total 
number of shares comprising the share capital at March  1, 
2024 and considering that the Company holds 1,267,029  of 
(1) For illustrative purposes, based on the total number of shares issued and outstanding at March 1, 2024, 17,260,811 shares.its own shares at that date, representing 0.73% of its share 
capital at March  1, 2024, a maximum of 15,993,782  shares 
may be purchased, representing 9.27% of the share capital 
at March  1, 2024, unless the Company sells or cancels own 
shares already held.
 —  M a x imum purchase price: € 350 per share (or the equivalent 
at the same date in any other currency or currency unit 
established by reference to more than one currency). It 
should be noted that (i)  this price could be adjusted in the 
event of a change in the par value of the share, a share 
capital increase by capitalizing reserves, a free share grant, 
a stock split or reverse stock split, a distribution of reserves 
or any other assets, a share capital redemption, or any other 
transaction impacting share capital or equity and (ii) the total 
amount of purchases may not exceed € 6,040  million.
Implementation and duration of the share buyback 
program
 —  Implementation of the program: acquisitions, sales and 
transfers of shares may be performed at any time other 
than during the period of a public offer for the Company’s 
shares, subject to the limits authorized by prevailing laws and 
regulations, and by any means, and particularly on regulated 
markets, via a multilateral trading facility or systematic 
internalizer or over the counter, including by block purchases 
or sales, by public offer for cash or shares or using options 
or other forward financial instruments traded on regulated 
markets, via a multilateral trading facility or systematic 
internalizer or over the counter, either directly or through an 
investment services provider, or in any other manner (with 
no limit on the portion of the share buyback program carried 
out by each of these means).
 —  Share buy -back program duration and schedule: eighteen 
month s as from the date of adoption of the 16th resolution 
by the May 16, 2024 Combined Shareholders’ Meeting, i.e., up 
to November 16, 2025. Pursuant to Article L. 22 -10-62 of the 
French Commercial Code, the aggregate number of shares 
which may be canceled in any given period of twenty -four 
months shall not exceed 10% of the Company’s share capital 
(adjusted for any transactions performed after the May 16, 
2024 Shareholders’ Meeting).
65  Communication with shareholders
As for all its stakeholders, Capgemini strives to communicate 
regularly with its shareholders and investors, in order to understand 
and take account of their expectations.
Financial communication principles
In accordance with prevailing financial market regulations, Capgemini 
complies with financial information transparency and accessibility 
principles, guaranteeing all shareholders equal access to information.
The main financial events organized for shareholders (revenue 
and financial result presentations, Investors’ Days, Shareholders’ 
Meetings) are announced according to a schedule set in advance 
and regularly updated on the Company’s website.Shareholders’ Meetings and quarterly presentations of Group 
revenues and financial results are streamed live on the Company’s 
website, with a replay subsequently available.
Financial announcements are published simultaneously in French 
and English.
Financial information, such as financial press releases, Group revenue 
and financial result presentations, Shareholder letters, information 
for Shareholders’ Meetings and the Universal Registration Document, 
is available and archived on the Company’s website.

CAPGeMInI And ITs shArehoLders
Communication with shareholders
382
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT6Shareholders’ Meetings
Capgemini Shareholders’ Meetings are a key opportunity for 
communicating between the Company and its shareholders. For 
several years now, Capgemini has organized governance roadshows 
with its investors prior to Shareholders’ Meetings to discuss their 
expectations. In addition, since 2017, the Lead Independent Director 
communicates regularly with the Company’s main shareholders 
on governance and Executive Corporate Officer compensation 
issues. He informs the Chairman and the members of the Board 
of Directors of any contacts he may have in this respect.
When convening each Shareholders’ Meeting, the Company indicates 
the means of participating in the documentation communicated to 
shareholders and available on its website (Notice of meeting, notice 
of convocation, convening brochure), as well as the legal process 
for submitting written questions and for requesting the inclusion 
of items or draft resolutions on the agenda. The Company allows 
shareholders to use the VOTACCESS internet voting platform, 
to allow them to transfer, prior to the Shareholders’ Meeting, 
their voting instructions, request an admission card or appoint 
or remove a proxy.
Applicable bylaw provisions on voting rights and participating at 
Shareholders’ Meetings are detailed in Section 8.1 (Legal information).
In 2023, the Shareholders’ Meeting took place with the physical 
presence of shareholders and other members entitled to attend. 
In order to encourage participation in this unique moment for 
expressing “ affectio societatis ” that is the Shareholders’ Meeting, 
shareholders who were unable to attend were able to ask questions 
live and remotely during the meeting by logging onto the Lumi 
Technologies platform with access codes that they had been given 
prior to the meeting. This option was in addition to the ability 
to submit written questions in accordance with legal provisions. 
The Shareholders’ Meeting was also streamed live, with a replay 
subsequently available.Constant communication with shareholders
In addition to investor roadshows covering the main financial 
markets after each revenue and financial result publication, 
Capgemini regularly organizes meetings with its investors to discuss 
non -financial information, its corporate, social and responsibility 
strategy and its ESG policy. The Group also participates in numerous 
institutional investor conferences and periodically organizes 
Investor Days to present its activities and strategy in greater detail. 
Finally, Capgemini distributes an information letter to individual 
shareholders each year and participates in physical and/or virtual 
events dedicated to individual shareholders.
More generally, the Investor Relations team is available at all times 
to answer questions from analysts and investors, both institutional 
and individual. Individual shareholders can also call a dedicated 
toll-free number.
Finally, Capgemini shareholders are regularly consulted in the same 
way as the Group’s other stakeholders, on various occasions. For 
example, they were involved in Group discussions on its Purpose 
in 2020 and on the drafting of its materiality matrix in 2018. In 
2021, the Group reviewed its risk mapping exercise undertaken 
in 2020 (covering both ESG risks and risks specific to its duty of 
care obligations) through consultation of internal and external 
stakeholders, including investors. A new stakeholder’s consultation 
will be held in 2024 on the Group’s risks and the duty of care plan, 
and the double materiality analysis as part of the implementation 
of the CSRD directive. See Chapter 4 for more detailed information.

383
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI771 ——  RESOLUTIONS PRESENTED AT THE ORDINARY SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING  384
72 ——  RESOLUTIONS PRESENTED AT THE EXTRAORDINARY SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING  396
73 ——  SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS ON THE ISSUANCE OF SHARES 
UNDER THE CAPGEMINI GROUP “ESOP 2023” EMPLOYEE SHAREHOLDING PLAN AND 
STATUTORY AUDITORS’ REPORT  416
74 ——  STATUTORY AUDITORS’ SPECIAL REPORT  423REPORT OF THE BOARD 
OF DIRECTORS AND 
DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO 
BE PRESENTED AT THE 
COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ 
MEETING OF MAY 16, 2024

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE C OMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 16, 2024
resolutions presented at the ordinary shareholders’ Meeting
384
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT7This report presents the proposed resolutions submitted to the Shareholders’ Meeting by the Board of Directors.
It consists of this introduction, the overview statements preceding the resolutions and a summary table of financial authorizations 
submitted for approval. The objective of this report is to draw your attention to the important points in the draft resolutions, in 
accordance with prevailing regulations and with best Corporate Governance practice recommended for companies listed in Paris. It 
does not purport to be comprehensive and does not replace a careful reading of the draft resolutions prior to voting.
An overview of the financial position, activities and results of the Company and its Group during the past fiscal year and other information 
required by prevailing law and regulations are also presented in the Management Report on fiscal year 2023 included in the present 
2023 Universal Registration Document to which you are invited to refer (see Cross-Reference Table in Section 9.3).
71  Resolutions presented at the Ordinary 
Shareholders’ Meeting
PRESENTATION OF THE 1ST AND 2ND RESOLUTIONS
APPROVAL OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Overview
In these two resolutions, we ask you to approve the Company 
financial statements and the consolidated financial statements 
of Capgemini for the year ended December 31, 2023 as follows: —  the Company financial statements showing a net profit of 
€804,593,226.11; 
 —  the consolidated financial statements of the Company 
showing net profit for the Group of €1,663 million.
FIRST RESOLUTION
Approval of the 2023 Company financial statements
The Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum 
and majority rules for Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, and  
having read the Board of Directors’ and the Statutory auditors’ 
reports, approves the Company financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2023, showing net profit for the year 
of €804,593,226.11, as presented, and the transactions recorded 
therein and summarized in these reports.
SECOND RESOLUTION
Approval of the 2023 consolidated financial statements
The Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum 
and majority rules for Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings and 
having read the Board of Directors’ and the Statutory auditors’ 
reports, approves the consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2023, showing net profit for the Group 
of €1,663 million, as presented, and the transactions recorded 
therein and summarized in these reports.
PRESENTATION OF THE 3RD RESOLUTION
APPROPRIATION OF EARNINGS AND SETTING OF THE DIVIDEND
Overview
The third resolution relates to the appropriation of earnings for 
fiscal year 2023 and the setting of the dividend.
It is proposed that the dividend be set at €3.40 per share, representing 
a total distribution of €586,867,584.20 based on the number of 
shares ranking for dividends at December 31, 2023.
In line with the Group’s historic dividend distribution policy that 
ensures a balance between the investment required for its long -term 
development and the redistribution of profits to shareholders, 
the payout ratio for the year ended December 31, 2023, excluding 
non -recurring tax income or expenses, would be 35%.
Residual distributable profits for the year, i.e. €6,136,378,434.87, 
will be added to retained earnings.For individual beneficiaries who are tax -resident in France, the 
dividend is fully eligible for the 40% tax rebate referred to in Article 
158.3.2° of the French Tax Code ( Code général des impôts ) where 
an express, global and irrevocable election is made for taxation at 
the progressive income tax scale. Where this option is not made, 
the dividend will fall within the application scope of the flat -rate 
income tax advance payment mechanism and will not be eligible 
for this 40% rebate.
Taking account of the recommendations of certain investors, and 
so as not to encourage security lending/borrowing transactions 
around the date of the Shareholders’ Meeting, the Board of 
Directors proposes an ex -dividend date of May 29, 2024 and a 
dividend payment date starting from May 31, 2024.

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE C OMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 16, 2024
resolutions presented at the ordinary shareholders’ Meeting
385
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI7THIRD RESOLUTION
Appropriation of earnings and setting of the dividend
The Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum and 
majority rules for Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, approves the recommendations of the Board of Directors to appropriate the net 
profit for the year ended December 31, 2023 as follows:
 —  Net profit for the year
 —  Funding of the legal reserve€804,593,226.11
-
ie a balance of: €804,593,226.11
 Retained earnings of previous years: €5,918,652,792.96
ie distributable earnings of: €6,723,246,019.07
 allocated to:
 —  payment of a dividend of €3.40 per share:
 —  retained earnings for the balance:€586,867,584.20  (1)
€6,136,378,434.87
giving a total of: €6,723,246,019.07
(1) The total amount of the distribution is calculated based on the number of shares ranking for dividends at December 31, 2023 and could therefore change if this number 
varies between January 1, 2024 and the ex -dividend date.
It should be noted that the dividend, set at €3.40 for each of the 
shares bearing dividend rights on January 1, 2024, will be fully 
eligible for the 40% tax rebate referred to in Article 158.3.2° of the 
French Tax Code ( Code général des impôts ) for private individuals 
tax-resident in France where an express, global and irrevocable 
election is made for taxation at the progressive income tax scale 
instead of application of the single flat -rate deduction.The ex -dividend date will be May 29, 2024 and the dividend will 
be payable from May 31, 2024. If, at the time of payment of the 
dividend, the number of treasury shares held by the Company has 
changed compared to that held on December 31, 2023, the fraction 
of the dividend relating to this variation will either increase or 
reduce retained earnings.
Pursuant to Article 243 bis of the French Tax Code, it is recalled that the following amounts were paid in respect of the past three  
fiscal years:
 dividend  
distribution  (1) 
(in euros) distributed  
income  (2) 
(in euros) dividend  
per share
(in euros)  
Fiscal year 2022 564,141,867.25 558,812,501.00 3.25
Fiscal year 2021 413,739,657.60 408,433,627.20 2.40
Fiscal year 2020 329,130,432.15 328,497,563.55 1.95
(1) Theoretical values calculated based on the number of shares bearing dividend rights on December 31 each year.
(2) Amounts effectively paid after adjusting the number of shares bearing dividend rights for any change in the number of treasury shares, the issuance of new shares and/or 
the cancelation of existing shares between January 1 and the ex -dividend date. In fiscal years 2020, 2021 and 2022 these amounts were only fully eligible for the 40% tax 
rebate referred to in Article 158.3.2° of the French Tax Code ( Code général des impôts ) when the beneficiary was a private individual tax -resident in France and had opted for 
taxation at the progressive income tax scale instead of application of the single flat -rate deduction.
PRESENTATION OF THE 4TH RESOLUTION
REGULATED AGREEMENTS – SPECIAL REPORT OF THE STATUTORY AUDITORS
Overview
As the Statutory auditors’ special report identifies no new regulated 
agreements entered into during the fiscal year ended December 31, 
2023, we ask you to approve the content of this report.Pursuant to Article L. 225 -40-1 of the French Commercial Code, the 
Board of Directors also conducted an annual review of regulated 
agreements entered into and authorized in prior years and took 
note that no agreements had continuing effect in 2023.
FOURTH RESOLUTION
Regulated Agreements – Special Report of the Statutory auditors
The Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum and 
majority rules for Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, and having read 
the Statutory auditors’ special report on regulated agreements 
governed by Article L. 225 -38 et seq.  of the French Commercial 
Code, approves the said special report and takes due note that it does not refer to any new regulated agreements entered into 
in fiscal year 2023, falling within the application scope of the 
aforementioned Article L. 225 -38.

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE C OMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 16, 2024
resolutions presented at the ordinary shareholders’ Meeting
386
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT7PRESENTATION OF THE 5TH TO 7TH RESOLUTIONS
APPROVAL OF THE COMPONENTS OF COMPENSATION AND ALL TYPES OF BENEFITS PAID DURING FISCAL 
YEAR 2023 OR GRANTED IN RESPECT OF THE SAME FISCAL YEAR TO EXECUTIVE CORPORATE OFFICERS
Overview
Pursuant to Article L. 22 -10-34, I of the French Commercial Code, we 
ask you to approve the report on the compensation of corporate 
officers including the information detailed in Article L. 22 -10-9 I of 
the French Commercial Code, as presented in Sections 2.3.1 and 
2.3.3 of the 2023 Universal Registration Document, in the report 
on Corporate Governance.
Pursuant to Article L. 22 -10-34 II of the French Commercial Code, 
we also ask you to approve the fixed, variable and exceptional 
components of total compensation and all types of benefits paid 
during fiscal year 2023 or granted in respect of the same fiscal year 
to Mr. Paul Hermelin, Chairman of the Board of Directors, and Mr. 
Aiman Ezzat, Chief Executive Officer, as presented in Section 2.3.3 of 
the 2023 Universal Registration Document. It is stipulated that 
Messrs. Paul Hermelin’s and Aiman Ezzat’s compensation was approved by the Board of Directors, at its meeting of February 13, 
2024, at the recommendation of the Compensation Committee, 
in accordance with the compensation policy approved by the 
Shareholders’ Meeting of May 16, 2023 (8th and 9th resolutions). Mr. 
Aiman Ezzat’s variable and exceptional compensation components 
for fiscal year 2023 will only be paid subject to approval of the 
7th resolution by the Shareholders’ Meeting.
The tables summarizing the components of compensation of the 
Executive Corporate Officers and the information concerning the 
compensation of corporate officers submitted to shareholders’ vote 
pursuant to the 5th, 6th and 7th resolutions, are presented in Sections 
2.3.1 and 2.3.3 of the 2023 Universal Registration Document, in the 
Board of Directors’ report on Corporate Governance.
FIFTH RESOLUTION
Approval of the report on the compensation of corporate officers relating to the information detailed in 
Article L. 22‑10‑9 I of the French Commercial Code
The Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum and 
majority rules for Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, and having read 
the Board of Directors’ report on the resolutions and the report on 
Corporate Governance referred to in Article L. 225 -37 of the French 
Commercial Code, approves, in accordance with Article L. 22 -10-34 I of the French Commercial Code, the report on the compensation 
of corporate officers including the information detailed in Article 
L. 22 -10-9 I of the French Commercial Code as presented in the 
aforementioned report on Corporate Governance.
SIXTH RESOLUTION
Approval of fixed, variable and exceptional components of total compensation and all types of benefits paid 
during fiscal year 2023 or granted in respect of the same fiscal year to Mr. Paul Hermelin, Chairman of the 
Board of Directors
The Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum and 
majority rules for Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, and having 
read the Board of Directors’ report on the resolutions and the 
report on Corporate Governance referred to in Article L. 225 -37 of 
the French Commercial Code, approves, in accordance with Article 
L. 22 -10-34 II of the French Commercial Code, the fixed, variable and exceptional components of total compensation and all types 
of benefits paid during fiscal year 2023 or granted in respect of 
the same fiscal year to Mr. Paul Hermelin, Chairman of the Board 
of Directors, as presented in the aforementioned report on 
Corporate Governance.
SEVENTH RESOLUTION
Approval of fixed, variable and exceptional components of total compensation and all types of benefits 
paid during fiscal year 2023 or granted in respect of the same fiscal year to Mr. Aiman Ezzat, Chief Executive 
Officer
The Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum and 
majority rules for Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, and having 
read the Board of Directors’ report on the resolutions and the 
report on Corporate Governance referred to in Article L. 225 -37 of 
the French Commercial Code, approves, in accordance with Article L. 22 -10-34 II of the French Commercial Code, the fixed, variable 
and exceptional components of total compensation and all types 
of benefits paid during fiscal year 2023 or granted in respect of 
the same fiscal year to Mr. Aiman Ezzat, Chief Executive Officer, as 
presented in the aforementioned report on Corporate Governance.

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE C OMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 16, 2024
resolutions presented at the ordinary shareholders’ Meeting
387
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI7PRESENTATION OF THE 8TH TO 10TH RESOLUTIONS
APPROVAL OF THE COMPENSATION POLICY APPLICABLE TO CORPORATE OFFICERS
(1) The Directors representing employees and employee shareholders are not taken into account in calculating this percentage, in accordance with the provisions of the 
AFEP-MEDEF Code and the French Commercial Code.Overview
Shareholders are asked to approve the compensation policy for 
corporate officers in accordance with the provisions of Article 
L. 22 -10-8 II of the French Commercial Code, as presented in the 
Board of Directors’ report on Corporate Governance.
The compensation policies for (i) the Chairman of the Board of 
Directors, (ii) the Chief Executive Officer and (iii) the Directors for their respective terms of office for fiscal year 2024, were 
approved by the Board of Directors’ meeting of February 13, 
2024 at the recommendation of the Compensation Committee. 
They are presented in the Board of Directors’ report on Corporate 
Governance in Sections 2.3.1 and 2.3.2 of the 2023 Universal 
Registration Document.
EIGHTH RESOLUTION
Approval of the compensation policy applicable to the Chairman of the Board of Directors
The Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum and 
majority rules for Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, and having read 
the Board of Directors’ report on the resolutions and the report on 
Corporate Governance referred to in Article L. 225 -37 of the French 
Commercial Code describing the components of the compensation policy for corporate officers, approves, in accordance with Article 
L. 22 -10-8 II of the French Commercial Code, the compensation 
policy for the Chairman of the Board of Directors, as presented in 
the aforementioned report on Corporate Governance.
NINTH RESOLUTION
Approval of the compensation policy applicable to the Chief Executive Officer
The Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum and 
majority rules for Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, and having read 
the Board of Directors’ report on the resolutions and the report on 
Corporate Governance referred to in Article L. 225 -37 of the French 
Commercial Code describing the components of the compensation policy for corporate officers, approves, in accordance with Article 
L. 22 -10-8 II of the French Commercial Code, the compensation policy 
for the Chief Executive Officer, as presented in the aforementioned 
report on Corporate Governance.
TENTH RESOLUTION
Approval of the compensation policy applicable to Directors
The Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum and 
majority rules for Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, and having read 
the Board of Directors’ report on the resolutions and the report on 
Corporate Governance referred to in Article L. 225 -37 of the French 
Commercial Code describing the components of the compensation policy for corporate officers, approves, in accordance with Article 
L. 22 -10-8 II of the French Commercial Code, the compensation 
policy for Directors, as presented in the aforementioned report 
on Corporate Governance.
PRESENTATION OF THE 11th TO 13th RESOLUTIONS
RENEWAL OF THE TERMS OF OFFICE OF THREE DIRECTORS, INCLUDING THE TERM OF OFFICE OF THE CHIEF 
EXECUTIVE OFFICER
Overview
At its meeting on February 13, 2024, the Board of Directors decided 
to propose the renewal of Mr. Aiman Ezzat’s term of office as 
director for a period of four years, and expressed its intention to 
confirm Mr. Ezzat in his role as Chief Executive Officer after the 
Shareholders’ Meeting.
The Board of Directors unanimously agreed with this proposal, based 
on the recommendation of the Ethics & Governance Committee, 
thereby reaffirming its support for Mr. Ezzat as he continues to 
implement the Group’s strategy.The Board of Directors will also propose the renewal of the terms of 
office of Ms. Siân Herbert-Jones and Ms. Belen Moscoso del Prado, 
for a period of four years. Ms. Herbert-Jones and Ms. Moscoso del 
Prado are considered to be independent pursuant to the criteria 
of the AFEP-MEDEF Code to which the Company refers.
Assuming the adoption of these resolutions by the Shareholders’ 
Meeting of May 16, 2024, the composition of the Board of Directors 
would therefore count 15 directors, including two directors 
representing employees and one director representing employee 
shareholders. 83% of its members will be independent(1) , 40% will 
have international profiles and 42% will be women(1) .

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE C OMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 16, 2024
resolutions presented at the ordinary shareholders’ Meeting
388
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT7
date of birth:
September 13, 1960
nationality:
British
Business address:
Capgemini SE,  
11 rue de Tilsitt  
75017 Paris
First appointment:
2016
Expiry of term of office:
2024 (Ordinary 
Shareholders’ Meeting 
held to approve the 2023 
financial statements)
number of shares held  
at December 31, 2023:
1,000SIÂN HERBERT-JONES
Independent d irector
Member of the Audit & r isk Committee
Member of the e thics & Governance Committee
BIoGrAPhY – P roFessI onAL e XPerIenCe
A British Chartered Accountant, Ms. Siân Herbert-Jones initially worked for 13 years with PricewaterhouseCoopers 
in its London and then Paris offices, where she was in charge of mergers and acquisitions (from 1983 to 
1993). She then joined the Sodexo Group, where she spent 21 years, including 15 years as Chief Financial 
Officer and member of the Group Executive Committee (until February 28, 2016). She was a director of 
Air Liquide S.A. (from 2011 to 2023), where she chaired the Audit & Accounts Committee. She has been a 
director of Bureau Veritas since May 17, 2016 and has been a member of the Audit & Risk Committee since 
May 2017. She has chaired this Committee since February 2021.
Ms. Siân Herbert-Jones joined the Board of Directors of Capgemini SE on May 18, 2016. She has been a 
member of the Audit & Risk Committee (formerly the Audit Committee) since this date and has been a 
member of the Ethics & Governance Committee since May 19, 2022.
Of British nationality, she brings strong financial and audit expertise to the Board, as well as her experience 
with international transactions, particularly in the service sector (BtoB). She also contributes to the Board 
her multi -cultural management experience and expertise and her experience as an Independent Director 
on the Boards of leading international companies.
Principal office:
Independent Director
OFFICES HELD IN 2023 OR CURRENT OFFICES AT DECEMBER 31, 2023
director of:
 —  CAPGEMINI SE* (since May 2016)
 —  L’AIR LIQUIDE S.A.* (until May 2023)
 —  BUREAU VERITAS* (since May 2016)
oTher o FFIC es he Ld dur InG The LA sT FIve Y eArs (oFFIC es e XPIred )
director of:
 —  COMPAGNIE FINANCIÈRE AURORE INTERNATIONALE, a Sodexo group subsidiary  
(until December 2021)
* Listed company.

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE C OMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 16, 2024
resolutions presented at the ordinary shareholders’ Meeting
389
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI7
date of birth:
June 15, 1973
nationality:
Spanish
Business address:
Capgemini SE,  
11 rue de Tilsitt  
75017 Paris
First appointment:
2020
Expiry of term of office:
2024 (Ordinary 
Shareholders’ Meeting 
held to approve the 2023 
financial statements)
number of shares held  
at December 31, 2023:
1,000 BELEN MOSCOSO DEL PRADO LOPEZ-DORIGA
Independent d irector
Member of the Compensation Committee
BIoGrAPhY – P roFessI onAL e XPerIenCe
In 2023, Ms. Belen Moscoso del Prado Lopez-Doriga was appointed Chief Digital & Data Officer and member 
of the Executive Committee of the Lesaffre Group, a global leader in fermentation and micro -organisms.
Before joining Lesaffre, Belen was Chief Digital & Innovation Officer and member of the Executive Committee 
at Sodexo. She also sat on Sodexo’s Venture Capital Investment Committee and was Chairman of the 
Foodchéri Board of Directors. Aligned with her commitments, she was also an Executive Committee sponsor 
of SoTogether, Sodexo’s diversity and inclusion global program.
Between 2008 and 2015, she held several positions leading digital transformations: at Axa Group, as Director 
of Digital Strategy, Transformation, and Innovation and at Solocal, as Head of Strategy, M& A and Partnerships.
For eight years, she was a consultant at Bain & Company, where she accompanied clients on strategic 
reviews, performance improvements and post -acquisition integration assignments in Europe and Central 
America. She started her career in 1995, in Spain, at The Walt Disney Company, where she held different 
positions in marketing.
During her career, she has also advised multiple start -ups and promoted building winning relations with 
corporations to develop long -lasting partnerships.
Ms. Belen Moscoso del Prado Lopez-Doriga holds a Master’s degree in International Economics from Carlos 
II University in Spain.
She joined the Board of Directors of Capgemini SE on May 20, 2020 and was appointed a member of the 
Compensation Committee on the same date.
Ms. Belen Moscoso del Prado Lopez-Doriga is a Spanish citizen. She has acquired solid experience in the 
field of innovation and transformation applied to Digital and Data strategy over the course of her career 
in international corporations.
Principal office:
Ms. Belen Moscoso del Prado Lopez-Doriga is Chief Digital & Data Officer and a member of the Executive 
Committee of Lesaffre Group.
OFFICES HELD IN 2023 OR CURRENT OFFICES AT DECEMBER 31, 2023
director of:
 —  CAPGEMINI SE* (since May 20, 2020)
oTher o FFIC es he Ld dur InG The LA sT FIve Y eArs (oFFIC es e XPIred )
Chairman of the Board of d irectors of:
 —  FOODCHERI (until December 2022)
director of:
 —  ADVEO INTERNATIONAL (until October 2019)Member of the Consultative Advisory Board of:
 —  WYND (until February 2021)
* Listed company.

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE C OMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 16, 2024
resolutions presented at the ordinary shareholders’ Meeting
390
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT7
date of birth:
May 22, 1961
nationality:
French
Business address:
Capgemini SE,  
11 rue de Tilsitt  
75017 Paris
First appointment:
2020
Expiry of term of office:
2024 (Ordinary 
Shareholders’ Meeting 
held to approve the 2023 
financial statements)
number of shares held  
at December 31, 2023:
113,269AIMAN EZZAT
director
Chief Executive Officer
Member of the s trategy & C sr Committee
BIoGrAPhY – P roFessI onAL e XPerIenCe
Mr. Aiman Ezzat, born on May 22, 1961, holds a MSc (Master of Science) in chemical engineering from École 
Supérieure de Chimie Physique Electronique de Lyon in France and an MBA from the Anderson School of 
Management at UCLA.
Mr. Aiman Ezzat has been Chief Executive Officer of Capgemini SE since May 20, 2020. He has also been a 
Director of Capgemini SE and a member of the Strategy & CSR Committee since the same date. He is also a 
Director of Air Liquide since May 4, 2021. In September 2021, he was named the “Best European CEO” for the 
technology and software category in Institutional Investor’s “2021 All Europe Executive Team” annual ranking.
Mr. Aiman Ezzat was Chief Operating Officer of Capgemini SE from January 1, 2018 to May 20, 2020. He 
was Chief Financial Officer of the Group from December 2012 to the end of May 2018. In March 2017, he 
was named the “Best European CFO” for the technology and software category in Institutional Investor’s 
“2017 All European Executive Team” annual ranking.
From December 2008 to 2012, he led the Financial Services Global Business Unit (GBU) after serving as Chief 
Operating Officer from November 2007. Mr. Aiman Ezzat also served as Capgemini’s Deputy Director of 
Strategy from 2005 to 2007. He played a key role in the development of the Booster turnaround plan for 
the Group’s activities in the United States, as well as in the development of the Group’s offshore strategy. 
In 2006, he was part of the acquisition and integration team for Kanbay, a global IT services firm focused 
on the Financial Services industry.
Before joining Capgemini, from 2000 to 2004, Mr. Aiman Ezzat served as Managing Director of International 
Operations at Headstrong, a global business and technology consultancy, where he worked in the Financial 
Services sector.
This came after nine years at Gemini Consulting (Gemini Consulting was the former brand of the strategic and 
transformation consulting arm of the Capgemini Group, which subsequently became Capgemini Consulting 
and then Invent), where he held a number of roles including Global Head of the Oil, Gas and Chemicals practice.
Mr. Aiman Ezzat is a Knight of the Legion of Honor.
Principal office:
Mr. Aiman Ezzat has been Chief Executive Officer of Capgemini SE since May 20, 2020.
OFFICES HELD IN 2023 OR CURRENT OFFICES AT DECEMBER 31, 2023
Chief Executive Officer of:
 —  CAPGEMINI SE* (since May 20, 2020)
director of:
 —  CAPGEMINI SE* (since May 20, 2020)
 —  L’AIR LIQUIDE S.A.* (since May 4, 2021)
Other offices held in Capgemini Group:
Chairman of:
 —  SOGETI FRANCE 2005 S.A.S.  
(since May 2018)
 —  CAPGEMINI SERVICE S.A.S.  
(since May 20, 2020)
 —  CAPGEMINI LATIN AMERICA S.A.S.  
(since May 20, 2020)
 —  CAPGEMINI 2023 (since May 23, 2023)Chairman of the Board of d irectors of:
 —  CAPGEMINI NORTH AMERICA, INC.  
(United States) (since May 20, 2020)
 —  CAPGEMINI AMERICA, INC. (United States) 
(since May 20, 2020)
Chairman of the s upervisory Board of:
 —  CAPGEMINI NV (Netherlands)  
(since November 27, 2020)
Chief Executive Officer of:
 —  CAPGEMINI NORTH AMERICA, INC.  
(United States) (since May 20, 2020)
director of:
 —  CAPGEMINI INTERNATIONAL BV (Netherlands) 
(since May 20, 2020)
 —  PURPOSE GLOBAL PNC (United States)  
(since April 17, 2020)
 —  CAPGEMINI TECHNOLOGY SERVICES INDIA 
LIMITED (India) (since January 19, 2021)

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE C OMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 16, 2024
resolutions presented at the ordinary shareholders’ Meeting
391
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI7oTher o FFIC es he Ld dur InG The LA sT FIve Y eArs (oFFIC es e XPIred )
Offices held in Capgemini Group:
Chief Operating Officer of:
 —  CAPGEMINI SE* (until May 20, 2020)
Chairman of:
 —  ALTRAN TECHNOLOGIES S.A.S.  
(until June 7, 2021)
director of:
 —  CAPGEMINI SINGAPORE PTE LTD (Singapore) 
(until November 2019)
 —  CAPGEMINI HONG KONG LTD (China)  
(until October 2019)
 —  CAPGEMINI CANADA INC. (Canada)  
(until March 2019)
 —  GESTION CAPGEMINI QUEBEC INC. (Canada) 
(until March 2019)
 —  CAPGEMINI AUSTRALIA PTY LTD (Australia) 
(until April 2019)
 —  SOGETI SVERIGE AB (Sweden)  
(until June 2019)
 —  SOGETI SVERIGE MITT AB (Sweden)  
(until November 2019) —  CGS HOLDING (United Kingdom)  
(until February 2019)
 —  SOGETI UK LTD (United Kingdom)  
(until July 1, 2020)
 —  CAPGEMINI ESPAÑA S.L. (Spain)  
(until July 28, 2020)
 —  CAPGEMINI SOLUTIONS CANADA INC. 
(Canada) (until June 19, 2020)
 —  CAPGEMINI TECHNOLOGIES LLC  
(United States) (until June 19, 2020)
 —  CAPGEMINI UK PLC (United Kingdom)  
(until July 1, 2020)
 —  CAPGEMINI (Hangzhou) CO. LTD (China)  
(until November 4, 2020)
 —  RESTAURANT APPLICATION DEVELOPMENT 
INTERNATIONAL (United States)  
(until June 19, 2020)
 —  RADI HOLDING LLC (United States)  
(until June 12, 2020)
Member of the s upervisory Board of:
 —  SOGETI NEDERLAND BV (Netherlands)  
(until November 27, 2020)
* Listed company.
ELEVENTH RESOLUTION
Renewal of the term of office of Ms. Siân Herbert ‑Jones as a director
At the recommendation of the Board of Directors, the Shareholders’ 
Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum and majority rules for 
Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, renews for a four -year period 
the term of office of Ms. Siân Herbert-Jones as a director, expiring at the close of this Shareholders’ Meeting. This term of office will 
expire at the close of the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting held to 
approve the 2027 financial statements.
TWELFTH RESOLUTION
Renewal of the term of office of Ms. Belen Moscoso del Prado Lopez ‑Doriga as a director
At the recommendation of the Board of Directors, the Shareholders’ 
Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum and majority rules for 
Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, renews for a four -year period the 
term of office of Ms. Belen Moscoso del Prado Lopez-Doriga as a director, expiring at the close of this Shareholders’ Meeting. This 
term of office will expire at the close of the Ordinary Shareholders’ 
Meeting held to approve the 2027 financial statements.
THIRTEENTH RESOLUTION
Renewal of the term of office of Mr. Aiman Ezzat as a director
At the recommendation of the Board of Directors, the Shareholders’ 
Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum and majority rules for 
Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, renews for a four -year period 
the term of office of Mr. Aiman Ezzat as a director, expiring at the close of this Shareholders’ Meeting. This term of office will expire 
at the close of the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting held to approve 
the 2027 financial statements.
PRESENTATION OF THE 14TH RESOLUTION AND RESOLUTION A
APPOINTMENT OF A DIRECTOR REPRESENTING EMPLOYEE SHAREHOLDERS
Overview
The 14th  resolution and Resolution A ask shareholders to elect 
a director representing employee shareholders on the Board of 
Directors of the Company. This office is currently held by Ms. Lucia 
Sinapi-Thomas and will expire at the end of the 2024 Shareholders’ 
Meeting.
Pursuant to legislative provisions and Article 11 – 5 of the Company’s 
bylaws, as the percentage of share capital held by employees of the 
Company and companies related to it represents over 3% of the 
Company’s share capital (the employees of the Group hold 8.9% of the share capital at December 31, 2023), a director representing 
employee shareholders must be elected by the Shareholders’ Meeting 
from among two candidates proposed by employees shareholders. 
One of these candidates, Mr. Christophe Merveilleux du Vignaux, 
was nominated by the members of the Supervisory Board of the 
various Capgemini employee savings mutual funds (FCPE), which 
together represent 7.3% of the share capital held by employee 
shareholders. The other candidate, Ms. Laurence Metzke, was 
directly elected by all registered employee shareholders.

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE C OMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 16, 2024
resolutions presented at the ordinary shareholders’ Meeting
392
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT7During its meeting of February 13, 2024, the Board of Directors 
decided to recommend the candidacy of Mr. Christophe Merveilleux 
du Vignaux, as he is nominated by the FCPE mutual funds 
representing the largest number of employee shareholders and 
holding the greatest percentage of the Company’s share capital.
Accordingly, the Board approved the 14th  resolution and did 
not approve resolution A.The candidate obtaining the greatest number of votes will be 
elected director representing employee shareholders. The director 
will be appointed for a period of four years, in accordance with 
the Company’s bylaws.
date of birth:
July 26, 1967
nationality:
French
Business address:
Capgemini  
Technology Services, 
76 avenue Kleber 
75016 Paris
First appointment:
2024
Expiry of term of office:
2028 (Ordinary 
Shareholders’ Meeting 
held to approve the 2027 
financial statements)
number of shares held  
at February 13, 2024:
14,841CHRISTOPHE MERVEILLEUX DU VIGNAUX
director representing employee shareholders
BIoGrAPhY – P roFessI onAL e XPerIenCe
Mr. Merveilleux du Vignaux is a graduate of HEC business school (1989). He started his career in 1991 with 
Coopers & Lybrand (PWC) as a financial auditor and then as a corporate finance consultant, before joining 
Capgemini in 1998.
He has 25 years’ experience within the Group, successively in the Mergers & Acquisitions department, as 
Business Risk Manager and then as Chief Financial Officer of Capgemini in India between 2004 and 2008.
He was then appointed Chief Financial Officer of several Strategic Business Units (SBU), for a range of 
scopes including the European, APCA and Americas regions. In particular, he was Chief Financial Officer of 
the Americas SBU between 2016 and 2022.
Since 2022, he is Head of Transformation in the Group Finance Department, responsible for the implementation 
of the OneFinance transformation program.
Mr. Merveilleux du Vignaux brings to the Board of Directors his finance expertise and in -depth knowledge 
of the Group and its operations.
Mr. Merveilleux du Vignaux is Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Capgemini Employee Savings Mutual 
Fund (FCPE) since April 2022.
Principal office: 
Head of Finance Transformation
OFFICES HELD IN 2023 OR CURRENT OFFICES AT DECEMBER 31, 2023
Offices held in Capgemini Group:
Chairman of the s upervisory Board of:
 —  FCPE CAPGEMINI (since April 2022)
director of:
 —  CAPGEMINI SOLUTIONS CANADA INC. (Canada) (since January 2017)
 —  CAPGEMINI CANADA INC. (Canada) (since March 2019)
 —  GESTION CAPGEMINI QUEBEC INC. (Canada) (since March 2019)
 —  CAPGEMINI BRASIL LTDA (Brazil) (since April 2023)
 —  CAPGEMINI HONG KONG LTD (Hong Kong) (since January 2013)
 —  CAPGEMINI (KUNSHAN) CO. LIMITED (China) (since December 2013)
 —  CAPGEMINI (CHINA) CO. LIMITED (China) (since February 2014)
oTher o FFIC es he Ld dur InG The LA sT FIve Y eArs (oFFIC es e XPIred )
Alternate d irector of:
 —  CAPGEMINI BRASIL SA (Brazil) (until April 2023)
director of:
 —  CAPGEMINI SINGAPORE PTE. LTD. (Singapore) (until November 2019)
 —  CAPGEMINI BUSINESS SERVICES (China) LTD (until April 2022)
 —  CHAPPUIS HALDER AND CO LTD (Hong Kong) (until January 2023)

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE C OMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 16, 2024
resolutions presented at the ordinary shareholders’ Meeting
393
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI7
date of birth:
March 12, 1969
nationality:
French & German
Business address:
Capgemini Invent, 
147 quai du Président 
Roosevelt  
92130 Issy-les-
Moulineaux
First appointment:
2024
Expiry of term of office:
2028 (Ordinary 
Shareholders’ Meeting 
held to approve the 2027 
financial statements)
number of shares held  
at February 13, 2024:
6,695LAURENCE METZKE
director representing employee shareholders
BIoGrAPhY – P roFessI onAL e XPerIenCe
Ms. Laurence Metzke is a graduate of ESCP-Europe Business School and studied in the United Kingdom and 
Germany. She has a European Master of Management and a German business degree.
Laurence started her career in Germany in 1992 as a consultant specializing in transformation and change 
management issues with Gruber, Titze & Partners, which later became Gemini Consulting Germany. She 
contributed to several major transformation projects for clients in a range of sectors (public services, 
automobile, manufacturing industry, etc.), located in Germany and other European countries (Switzerland, 
United Kingdom, Norway, Italy).
In 2000, she joined Gemini Consulting France and then refocused her career on Human Resources, as Global 
Learning & Development Manager for the Strategic Consulting Profession. In 2005, she was appointed 
Human Resources Director for Global Sales, with this role subsequently extended in 2007 to encompass 
Group Marketing & Communications. In 2013, she was appointed Human Resources Director, Infrastructures 
Services. From 2016 to 2018, Laurence was Human Resources Director, Group Competitiveness, encompassing 
the Group IT, Group Delivery, Procurement and Group Industrialization entities.
In July 2018, she was appointed Chief Human Resources Officer of Capgemini Invent, where she contributed 
to growing the entity by pursuing a talent acquisition, HR development and training agenda. In January 2023, 
she also assumed responsibility for Capgemini Invent’s Platforms of Excellence.
Principal office:
Ms. Laurence Metzke is Chief Human Resources Officer at Capgemini Invent.
OFFICES HELD IN 2023 OR CURRENT OFFICES AT DECEMBER 31, 2023
director of:
 —  CAPGEMINI DEUTSCHLAND GmbH (Germany)
oTher o FFIC es he Ld dur InG The LA sT FIve Y eArs (oFFIC es e XPIred )
 —  N / A
FOURTEENTH RESOLUTION
Appointment of Mr  Christophe Merveilleux du Vignaux as a director representing employee shareholders 
pursuant to Article 11‑5 of the bylaws
The Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum 
and majority rules for Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, appoints 
Ms. Christophe Merveilleux du Vignaux as a director representing employee shareholders for a period of four years. This term of office 
will expire at the close of the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting held 
to approve the 2027 financial statements.
RESOLUTION A
Appointment of Ms. Laurence Metzke as a director representing employee shareholders pursuant to Article 
11‑5 of the bylaws (resolution not approved by the Board of Directors)
The Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum 
and majority rules for Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, appoints 
Ms. Laurence Metzke as a director representing employee shareholders for a period of four years. This term of office will 
expire at the close of the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting held to 
approve the 2027 financial statements.
PRESENTATION OF THE 15th RESOLUTION
APPOINTMENT OF A STATUTORY AUDITOR TO CERTIFY SUSTAINABILITY INFORMATION
Overview
Pursuant to the recent enactment into French law of Directive 
no. 2022/2464 on corporate sustainability reporting (CSRD), your 
Company is required, as a public interest entity, to publish its first 
sustainability report in 2025, based on fiscal year 2024. In order 
to confer a high level of confidence in this report, in accordance 
with the new rules applicable, it is planned to audit and certify this 
sustainability information.On the recommendation of the Audit & Risk Committee, shareholders 
are asked to appoint Mazars to perform this engagement, for the 
remaining term of its office as statutory auditor of the Company, 
that is for a period of two years expiring at the close of the 
Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting held to approve the 2025 financial 
statements (15th resolution).

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE C OMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 16, 2024
resolutions presented at the ordinary shareholders’ Meeting
394
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT7As Mazars is already the Company’s statutory auditor and is also 
responsible for verifying the Group’s non -financial performance 
disclosure, entrusting it with the task of certifying the sustainability information will help to ensure consistency of the financial and 
sustainability information, while leveraging their knowledge of 
the Group and its non -financial reporting process.
FIFTEENTH RESOLUTION
Appointment of Mazars as a statutory auditor certifying sustainability information
The Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum 
and majority rules for Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, and  
having read the Board of Directors’ report, appoints Mazars, 
whose registered office is located at Tour Exaltis, 61, rue Henri 
Regnault, 92400 Courbevoie, as a statutory auditor responsible for 
the sustainability information certification engagement, for the 
remaining term of its office as statutory auditor of the Company, that is for a period of two years, it being specified that Mazars 
will be represented by a natural person meeting the necessary 
conditions for conducting a sustainability information certification 
engagement in accordance with the provisions of Article L. 821 -81 of 
the French Commercial Code. This term of office will expire at the 
close of the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting held to approve the 
2025 financial statements.
PRESENTATION OF THE 16TH RESOLUTION
Share buyback program
Overview
The 16th resolution asks shareholders to renew the authorization 
granted to the Company to buy back its own shares (13th resolution 
approved by the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 16, 2023).
objective
The Company envisages using this authorization primarily in the 
context of current or future multi -year share buyback programs, 
as well as for any specific share buyback programs to manage 
shareholder dilution under any new employee share ownership plan, 
if appropriate. The acquisition, disposal and transfer transactions 
may be carried out by any means in accordance with prevailing 
laws and regulations – including through the use of derivative 
instruments or by means of a block purchase or transfer of shares 
– and be carried out at any time, except during public offers for 
the Company’s shares.
The objectives of the share buyback program are presented 
below in the 16th resolution, as well as in the description of the 
share buyback program in Section 6.4.2. of the 2023 Universal 
Registration Document.
Authorization ceiling
 —  10% of the share capital
 —  Maximum purchase price: €350
 —  Maximum budget: €6,040 millions
Authorization period
 —  Eighteenth months
use of the authorization granted in 2023
Shareholders are reminded that the Ordinary Shareholders’ 
Meeting of May 16, 2023 renewed the authorization granted to 
the Company to buy back its shares under certain conditions. This 
authorization was used in 2023 in connection with the liquidity 
contract entered into with Kepler Cheuvreux and more generally as 
part of the continued purchase by the Company of its own shares.
The liquidity contract seeks to improve the liquidity of the 
Capgemini share and to allow more regular quotations. In 2023, 
under this contract, a total of 1,713,144 shares were purchased on 
behalf of the Company, representing 0.99% of the share capital 
at December 31, 2023, at an average price of €170.17 per share. 
During the same period, 1,768,353 Capgemini shares were sold, representing 1.02% of the share capital at December 31, 2023, at 
an average price of €170.55 per share. At the year -end, the liquidity 
account presented a balance of 32,380 shares (approximately 0.02% 
of the share capital) and approximately €27 million.
In addition, the Company continued to purchase its own shares 
in 2023. Excluding the liquidity contract, the Company held 
1,258,016 of its own shares at December 31, 2023, following the 
various transactions described below:
 —  purchase of 5,218,915  shares representing 3.02% of the 
share capital at December  31, 2023, at an average price of 
€169.28 per share; 
 —  transfer of 1,363,887  shares to employees under the free 
share grant plan; 
 —  cancelation of 4,174,000 shares.
Out of the 5,218,915 shares purchased outside the liquidity contract 
in 2023, 2,018,915 shares were purchased under the multi -year 
share buyback programs and 3,200,000 shares were purchased 
pursuant to a specific program to neutralize the dilutive impact of 
the Group ESOP 2023 employee share ownership plan.
1,216,562 shares were allocated to the grant or sale of shares to 
employees and/or corporate officers and 4,002,353 shares were 
allocated to cancelation.
Trading fees (excluding VAT) and the financial transaction tax 
totaled €2,870,470 in 2023.
At December 31, 2023, excluding the liquidity contract, out of 
the 1,258,016 treasury shares held, representing 0.73% of the 
Company’s share capital:
 —  455,663 shares were allocated to the grant or sale of shares 
to employees and/or corporate officers; and
 —  802,353 shares were allocated to cancelation.
Finally, it is noted that during fiscal year 2023, treasury shares 
held by the Company were not reallocated between the different 
objectives.
Information on transactions performed during 2023 is presented 
in Chapter 6, Sections 6.1.2 and 6.4.1. of the 2023 Universal 
Registration Document.

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE C OMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 16, 2024
resolutions presented at the ordinary shareholders’ Meeting
395
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI7SIXTEENTH RESOLUTION
Authorization of a share buyback program
The Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum and 
majority rules for Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, and having read 
the Board of Directors’ report, authorizes the Board of Directors, 
with the power of sub -delegation to the extent authorized by law 
and in accordance with Articles L. 225 -210 et seq.  and L. 22 -10-62 
et seq.  of the French Commercial Code, to purchase or arrange 
the purchase of the Company’s shares, particularly with a view to:
 —  the grant or sale of shares to employees and/or corporate 
officers (on the terms and by the methods provided by 
law), in particular with a view to the grant of free shares 
pursuant to the provisions of Articles L. 225 -197-1 et seq.  and 
L. 22 -10-59 et seq.  of the French Commercial Code, the grant 
or sale of shares to employees under the French statutory 
profit -sharing scheme or the implementation of any 
company or Group savings plan (or similar plan) on the terms 
provided by law, in particular Articles L. 3332 -1 et seq.  of the 
French Labor Code, and generally, honoring all obligations 
relating to share option programs or other share grants to 
employees or corporate officers of the Company or a related 
company, or to permit the hedging of a structured employee 
share ownership plan by a bank, or entity controlled by a 
bank within the meaning of Article L.  233 -3  of the French 
Commercial Code, acting at the Company’s request; or
 —  the delivery of shares on the exercise of rights attached to 
securities granting access to the share capital by redemption, 
conversion, exchange, presentation of a warrant or any other 
means; or
 —  the cancelation of some or all of the shares purchased; or
 —  the delivery of shares (in exchange, as payment, or otherwise) 
in connection with acquisitions, mergers, demergers or 
asset -for-share exchanges; or
 —  the management of the secondary market or maintenance 
of the liquidity of the Capgemini share by an investment 
services provider under a liquidity contract that complies 
with market practices accepted by the Autorité des marchés 
financiers  (AMF – the French Financial Markets Authority).
This program is also intended to enable the implementation of 
any market practice that may be permitted by the French Financial 
Markets Authority (AMF) and more generally the carrying out of 
any transaction that complies with prevailing regulations. In such 
cases, the Company will inform its shareholders by means of a 
press release.
Purchases of the Company’s own shares may be made such that, at 
the date of each purchase, the total number of shares acquired by 
the Company since the beginning of the buyback program (including 
the shares subject to the current purchase) does not exceed 10% 
of the shares comprising the Company’s share capital at that date 
(including transactions impacting the share capital and performed 
after this Shareholders’ Meeting), it being stipulated that (i) the 
number of shares purchased with a view to their retention or 
presentation in a merger, demerger or asset -for-share exchange 
transaction may not exceed 5% of the Company’s share capital; and (ii) where the shares are repurchased to improve liquidity on 
the terms set out in the AMF general regulations, the number of 
shares taken into account in calculating the above 10% limit will 
be the number of shares purchased minus the number of shares 
resold during the authorization period. Pursuant to the law, the 
number of shares held at a given date may not exceed 10% of the 
Company’s share capital at that date.
Acquisitions, sales and transfers of shares may be performed at 
any time other than during the period of a public offer for the 
Company’s shares, subject to the limits authorized by prevailing 
laws and regulations, and by any means, and particularly on 
regulated markets, via a multilateral trading facility or systematic 
internalizer or over the counter, including by block purchases or 
sales, by public offer for cash or shares or using options or other 
forward financial instruments traded on regulated markets, via a 
multilateral trading facility or systematic internalizer or over the 
counter, either directly or through an investment services provider, 
or in any other manner (with no limit on the portion of the share 
buyback program carried out by each of these means).
The maximum purchase price of shares purchased pursuant to this 
resolution will be €350 per share (or the equivalent at the same 
date in any other currency or currency unit established by reference 
to more than one currency). The Shareholders’ Meeting delegates 
to the Board of Directors powers to adjust the aforementioned 
maximum purchase price in the event of a change in the par value 
of the share, a share capital increase by capitalizing reserves, a 
free share grant, a stock split or reverse stock split, a distribution 
of reserves or any other assets, a share capital redemption, or any 
other transaction impacting share capital, to take account of the 
impact of such transactions on the value of the shares.
The total amount allocated to the share buyback program authorized 
above may not exceed €6,040 million.
The Shareholders’ Meeting confers full powers on the Board of 
Directors, with the power of sub -delegation to the extent authorized 
by law, to decide and implement this authorization and if necessary 
to specify the conditions and determine the terms thereof, to 
implement the share buyback program, and in particular to place 
stock market orders, enter into any agreement, allocate or reallocate 
purchased shares to desired objectives subject to applicable legal 
and regulatory conditions, set any terms and conditions that may 
be necessary to preserve the rights of holders of securities or other 
rights granting access to the share capital in accordance with legal 
and regulatory provisions and, where applicable, any contractual 
terms stipulating other cases where adjustment is necessary, to 
make declarations to the Autorité des marchés financiers  (AMF – 
the French Financial Markets Authority) or any other competent 
authority, to accomplish all other formalities and generally do all 
that is necessary.
This authorization is granted for a period of eighteen months as 
from the date of this Shareholders’ Meeting.
It supersedes from this date, in the amount of any unused portion, 
the authorization granted by the 13th resolution adopted by the 
Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 16, 2023.

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE C OMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 16, 2024
resolutions presented at the e xtraordinary shareholders’ Meeting
396
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT772  Resolutions presented at the Extraordinary 
Shareholders’ Meeting
PRESENTATION OF THE 17TH RESOLUTION
AUTHORIZATION TO CANCEL TREASURY SHARES
Overview
It is recalled that the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 19, 2022 
authorized the Board of Directors to cancel, up to a maximum of 
10% of the share capital, on one or several occasions, at its sole 
discretion, all or some of the treasury shares held by the Company 
or that it comes to hold pursuant to Article L. 22 -10-62 et seq.  of the 
French Commercial Code and to reduce the share capital accordingly.4,174,000 treasury shares were canceled in fiscal year 2023.
Shareholders are asked to renew for a period of 26 months the 
authorization granted to the Board of Directors to cancel shares 
bought back up to a maximum of 10% of the share capital by 
24-month period, this 10% limit applying to a share capital amount 
adjusted for any transactions performed after the date of the 
Shareholders’ Meeting.
SEVENTEENTH RESOLUTION
Authorization to the Board of Directors, for a period of twenty‑six months, to cancel shares bought back by 
the Company under the share buyback programs
The Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum 
and majority rules for Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, 
and having read the Board of Directors’ report and the Statutory 
auditors’ special report, authorizes the Board of Directors to reduce 
the share capital, on one or more occasions, in the proportions 
and at the times it sees fit, by cancelation of whatever number 
of treasury shares it decides up to the limits authorized by law, in 
accordance with Articles L. 22 -10-62 et seq.  and L. 225 -210 of the 
French Commercial Code.
At the date of each cancelation, the maximum number of shares 
canceled by the Company during the twenty -four month period 
preceding such cancelation, including the shares subject to the 
current cancelation, may not exceed 10% of the shares comprising 
the Company’s share capital at that date, this limit being applied to a 
share capital amount adjusted to reflect any transactions impacting 
the share capital subsequent to this Shareholders’ Meeting.The Shareholders’ Meeting confers full powers on the Board of 
Directors, with the power of sub -delegation, to carry out such 
cancelation(s) and reduction(s) of share capital as may be performed 
pursuant to this authorization, to deduct from additional paid -in 
capital or the distributable reserves of its choice the difference 
between the purchase price of the canceled shares and their par 
value, to allocate the portion of the legal reserve that becomes 
available as a result of the capital reduction, to amend the bylaws 
accordingly and to carry out all necessary formalities.
This authorization is granted for a period of twenty -six months as 
from the date of this Shareholders’ Meeting.
The Shareholders’ Meeting takes due note that this authorization 
supersedes from this date, in the amount of any unused portion, 
the authorization granted by the 20th resolution adopted by the 
Shareholders’ Meeting of May 19, 2022.
PRESENTATION OF THE 18TH TO 24TH RESOLUTIONS
FINANCIAL AUTHORIZATIONS
Overview
Financial authorizations requested in 2024
1  T h e  1 8th to 24th resolutions are all intended to give the Board 
of Directors powers to make certain decisions regarding 
increasing the Company’s share capital. The aim of these 
financial authorizations is to give the Board of Directors 
flexibility in its choice of potential issue, and to enable it, at 
the appropriate time, to adapt the nature of the financial 
instruments issued to the Company’s needs and the state of 
and possibilities offered by French or international financial 
markets.
2  These resolutions may be split into two main categories: 
those that would result in share capital increases with 
retention of pre -emptive subscription rights, and those that 
would result in share capital increases with cancelation of 
pre-emptive subscription rights. 
All share capital increases for cash entitle existing shareholders 
to a “pre -emptive subscription right”, which is detachable 
and may be traded during the subscription period. For a 
period of at least five trading sessions after the opening of 
the subscription period, each shareholder has the right to 
subscribe for a quantity of new shares proportionate to their 
existing interest in the share capital.In some of these resolutions, the Board of Directors requests 
your authorization to cancel this pre -emptive subscription right. 
Depending on market conditions and the type of securities 
issued, it may be preferable, or even necessary to cancel 
pre-emptive subscription rights in order for the securities to 
be placed on the best possible terms, particularly when speed 
is essential to the success of an issue.
3  It is stipulated that the authorizations requested are in 
line with market practices. They are indeed subject to 
limits covering their validity and issue ceilings. Firstly, each 
authorization is granted for a limited period. In addition, 
the Board of Directors may only increase the share capital 
up to strictly defined ceilings, above which the Board of 
Directors cannot increase the share capital again without 
calling a new Shareholders’ Meeting. They consist mainly 
of a common overall ceiling of €540  million (i.e. nearly 
40% of the Company’s share capital at December 31, 2023) 
applicable to all share capital increases by issuing shares 
and/or securities granting access to the share capital (with 
the exception of those realized by capitalizing additional 
paid -in capital, reserves, profits or other) and a sub -ceiling of 
€135 million (i.e. nearly 10% of the Company’s share capital at 
December 31, 2023) common to all share capital increases by 

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE C OMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 16, 2024
resolutions presented at the e xtraordinary shareholders’ Meeting
397
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI7issuing shares and/or securities granting access to the share 
capital with cancelation of pre -emptive subscription rights.
Furthermore, the 18th to 24th resolutions may not be used by the 
Board of Directors following a public offer for the Company’s 
shares until the end of the offer period (unless specifically 
authorized by a Shareholders’ Meeting).
4  In addition to the possibility to issue shares (excluding 
preference shares), these financial authorizations provide 
the ability, where applicable, to issue all types of securities 
governed by Articles L.  228 -92, paragraph  1, L.  228 -93, 
paragraphs 1 and 3 or L.  228 -94, paragraph  2, of the 
French Commercial Code granting access, immediately or 
in the future, at any time or at fixed dates, by subscription, 
conversion, exchange, redemption, presentation of a 
warrant or any other means, to the share capital (including 
equity securities granting rights to the allocation of debt 
instruments) of the Company or other companies (including 
companies in which the Company owns directly or indirectly 
more than half the share capital).5  Should the Board of Directors use a delegation of authority 
or powers granted by the Shareholders’ Meeting, it would 
prepare at the time of its decision, where applicable and 
in accordance with the law and regulations, an additional 
report describing the definitive terms and conditions of 
the transaction and indicating its impact on the position of 
holders of equity securities or securities granting access to 
the share capital, in particular with respect to their share 
in equity. This report and, where applicable, the Statutory 
auditors’ report would be made available to holders of equity 
securities and securities granting access to the share capital 
and brought to the attention of the next Shareholders’ 
Meeting.
6  Details of the purpose and terms and conditions of issues of 
shares and/or securities granting access to the share capital 
are presented below in the report on each of the 18th  to 
24th resolutions.
use of the authorizations granted previously
It is recalled that the Board of Directors did not make use of financial 
authorizations granted by the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 19, 
2022 under the 21st to 27th resolutions.
PRESENTATION OF THE 18TH RESOLUTION
SHARE CAPITAL INCREASE BY CAPITALIZING ADDITIONAL PAID ‑IN CAPITAL, RESERVES, PROFITS OR ANY 
OTHER AMOUNTS
Overview
This resolution asks shareholders to authorize the Board of 
Directors to increase the share capital, on one or more occasions, 
by capitalizing additional paid -in capital, reserves, profits or any 
other amounts, up to a maximum par value amount of €1.5 billion, 
an independent ceiling separate from the ceilings set in the other 
resolutions presented to this Shareholders’ Meeting.
Added to these ceilings will be the par value amount of any shares 
to be issued to preserve, in accordance with legal and regulatory 
provisions and, where applicable, any contractual terms stipulating other cases where adjustment is necessary, the rights of holders 
of securities or other rights granting access to the share capital.
This transaction would lead to the issue of new equity securities 
or an increase in the par value of existing equity securities or a 
combination of both methods.
This delegation of authority would be granted for a period of 
twenty -six months.
This delegation would supersede that granted by the 21st resolution 
adopted by the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 19, 2022.
EIGHTEENTH RESOLUTION
Delegation of authority to the Board of Directors, for a period of twenty‑six months, to increase the share 
capital by a maximum par value amount of €1.5 billion by capitalizing additional paid‑in capital, reserves, 
profits or any other amounts
The Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum 
and majority rules for Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, having 
read the Board of Directors’ report and in accordance with Articles 
L. 225 -129-2, L. 225 -130 and L. 22 -10-50 of the French Commercial 
Code:
1  delegates to the Board of Directors, with the power of 
sub-delegation to the extent authorized by law, its authority 
to decide share capital increases, on one or more occasions, 
in the proportions and at the times it sees fit, by capitalizing 
additional paid -in capital, reserves, profits or any other 
amounts that may be converted into share capital under the 
law and the Company’s bylaws and by issuing new equity 
securities or increasing the par value of existing equity 
securities or by a combination of both methods; 
2  resolves that the maximum par value amount of share capital 
increases performed pursuant to this delegation is set at 
€1.5 billion or the equivalent in any other currency or currency 
unit established by reference to more than one currency, it 
being stipulated that this ceiling will be increased, where 
applicable, by the par value amount of shares to be issued to 
preserve, in accordance with legal and regulatory provisions and, where applicable, any contractual terms stipulating 
other cases where adjustment is necessary, the rights of 
holders of securities or other rights granting access to the 
share capital; 
3  in the event the Board of Directors uses this delegation 
of authority, delegates to the Board full powers, with the 
power of sub -delegation to the extent authorized by law, to 
implement this delegation, and in particular to:
 —  determine the amount and nature of sums to be 
capitalized, set the number of new equity securities to 
be issued and/or the amount by which the par value of 
existing equity securities will be increased and decide 
the date, which may be retroactive, from which the new 
equity securities will rank for dividends or the increase in 
the par value of existing equity securities will take effect; 
 —  decide in the event of a free grant of equity securities that 
fractional rights will not be negotiable or transferable 
and that the corresponding equity securities will be 
sold in accordance with the methods determined by 
the Board of Directors, it being stipulated that the sale 
and allocation of the sales proceeds must be performed 

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE C OMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 16, 2024
resolutions presented at the e xtraordinary shareholders’ Meeting
398
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT7within the time period set by Article R.  225 -130  of the 
French Commercial Code;
 —  set, in accordance with legal and regulatory provisions 
and, where applicable, any contractual provisions 
stipulating other additional methods of preservation, 
terms enabling the preservation, where applicable, of 
the rights of holders of securities or other rights granting 
access to the share capital (including by means of cash 
adjustments); 
 —  duly record completion of each share capital increase and 
make the corresponding amendments to the bylaws; 
 —  generally, enter into all agreements, take all measures 
and accomplish all formalities for the issue, listing and financial administration of securities issued by virtue 
of this delegation and for the exercise of the rights 
attached thereto; 
4  resolves that the Board of Directors may not, without 
prior authorization of a Shareholders’ Meeting, use this 
delegation of authority following a third party public offer 
for the Company’s shares, until the end of the offer period; 
5  grants this delegation of authority for a period of twenty -six 
months as from the date of this Shareholders’ Meeting; 
6  takes due note that this delegation supersedes from this 
date, in the amount of any unused portion, the delegation 
granted by the 21st resolution adopted by the Shareholders’ 
Meeting of May 19, 2022.
PRESENTATION OF THE 19TH RESOLUTION
SHARE CAPITAL INCREASE WITH RETENTION OF PRE ‑EMPTIVE SUBSCRIPTION RIGHTS
Overview
This resolution asks shareholders to authorize the Board of 
Directors to increase the share capital, on one or more occasions, 
by issuing shares of the Company (excluding preference shares), 
and/or securities granting access, immediately or in the future, to 
the share capital of the Company or other companies.
The maximum par value amount of share capital increases that 
may be carried out under this delegation is set at €540 million, it 
being stipulated that this amount will count towards the overall 
ceiling applicable to all share capital increases by issuing shares 
and/or securities granting access to the share capital that may be 
carried out under this delegation and those delegations granted 
by the 20th, 21st, 22nd, 23rd and 24th resolutions.
Should debt instruments granting access immediately or in the 
future to the share capital be issued, the nominal amount of such 
issues may not exceed €5,900 million, it being stipulated that 
this amount will count towards the overall ceiling applicable to all issues of debt instruments that may be carried out under this 
delegation and those delegations granted by the 20th, 21st, 22nd, 
23rd and 24th resolutions.
Added to these ceilings will be the par value amount of any shares 
to be issued to preserve, in accordance with legal and regulatory 
provisions and, where applicable, any contractual terms stipulating 
other cases where adjustment is necessary, the rights of holders 
of securities or other rights granting access to the share capital.
The issue price of shares and securities granting access to the 
share capital, immediately or in the future, will be set by the Board 
of Directors.
This delegation of authority would be granted for a period of 
twenty -six months.
This delegation would supersede that granted by the 22nd resolution 
adopted by the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 19, 2022.
NINETEENTH RESOLUTION
Delegation of authority to the Board of Directors, for a period of twenty‑six months, to issue, with retention 
of pre‑emptive subscription rights, ordinary shares and/or securities granting access to the Company’s share 
capital, immediately or in the future
The Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum and 
majority rules for Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, having 
read the Board of Directors’ report and the Statutory auditors’ 
special report and in accordance with Articles L. 225 -129 et seq.  of 
the French Commercial Code and particularly Articles L. 225 -129, 
L. 225 -129-2, L. 225 -132 to L. 225 -134 and L. 228 -91 et seq.  of the 
French Commercial Code:
1  delegates to the Board of Directors, with the power 
of sub -delegation to the extent authorized by law, its 
authority to decide a share capital increase with retention of 
pre-emptive subscription rights, on one or more occasions, 
in France or abroad, in the proportions and at the times it 
sees fit, in euros or in any other currency or currency unit 
established by reference to more than one currency, with or 
without a share premium, whether for valuable consideration 
or without consideration, by issuing (i) shares of the Company 
(excluding preference shares), and/or (ii) securities governed 
by Articles L. 228 -92 paragraph 1, L. 228 -93 paragraphs 1 and 
3 or L. 228 -94 paragraph 2 of the French Commercial Code 
granting access, immediately or in the future, at any time 
or at fixed dates, by subscription, conversion, exchange, 
redemption, presentation of a warrant or any other means, to the share capital (including equity securities granting 
rights to the allocation of debt instruments) of the Company 
or other companies (including companies in which the 
Company owns directly or indirectly more than half the share 
capital), it being stipulated that the shares may be paid -up in 
cash, by offset of debt, or by capitalizing reserves, profits or 
additional paid -in capital; 
2  resolves to set the following limits on authorized share 
capital increases in the event of use by the Board of Directors 
of this delegation of authority:
 —  the maximum par value amount of share capital 
increases that may be carried out, immediately or in 
the future, under this delegation is set at €540  million 
or the equivalent in any other currency or currency unit 
established by reference to more than one currency, it 
being stipulated that the maximum aggregate par value 
amount of increases in the Company’s share capital 
made under this delegation and under those delegations 
granted by the 20th, 21st, 22nd, 23rd and  2 4th resolutions 
of this Shareholders’ Meeting is set at €540  million or 
the equivalent in any other currency or currency unit 
established by reference to more than one currency;

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE C OMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 16, 2024
resolutions presented at the e xtraordinary shareholders’ Meeting
399
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI7 —  added to these ceilings will be the par value amount of 
any shares to be issued to preserve, in accordance with 
legal and regulatory provisions and, where applicable, 
any contractual terms stipulating other cases where 
adjustment is necessary, the rights of holders of 
securities or other rights granting access to the share 
capital;
 —  in the case of a share capital increase by capitalizing 
additional paid -in capital, reserves, profits or any other 
amounts and granting free shares during the period 
of validity of this delegation, the above ceilings will be 
adjusted based on the ratio between the number of 
shares issued and outstanding before and after the 
transaction; 
3  resolves to set the following limits on authorized debt 
instruments on the issue of securities representing debt 
instruments granting access, immediately or in the future, to 
the share capital of the Company or other companies:
 —  the maximum nominal value of debt instruments that 
may be issued immediately or in the future under this 
delegation is set at €5,900  million or the equivalent 
in any other currency or currency unit established 
by reference to more than one currency at the issue 
date, it being stipulated that the maximum aggregate 
nominal value of debt instruments that may be issued 
under this delegation and under those delegations 
granted by the 20th, 21st, 22nd, 23rd and  2 4th resolutions 
of this Shareholders’ Meeting is set at €5,900 million or 
the equivalent in any other currency or currency unit 
established by reference to more than one currency; 
 —  these limits will be increased, where applicable, for any 
redemption premium above par; 
 —  these limits are independent of the amount of any debt 
instrument issue decided or authorized by the Board 
of Directors in accordance with Articles L.  228 -36-A, 
L. 228 -40, L. 228 -92 paragraph 3, L. 228 -93 paragraph 6 
and L.  228 -94  paragraph  3, of the French Commercial 
Code; 
4  in the event the Board of Directors uses this delegation of 
authority:
 —  resolves that the issue(s) will be reserved in priority 
for shareholders, who may subscribe pursuant to their 
priority rights in proportion to the number of shares 
owned by them at that time; 
 —  takes due note that the Board of Directors will have the 
option of instituting pro -rated subscription rights; 
 —  takes due note that this delegation of authority involves 
the waiver by shareholders, in favor of holders of 
securities issued granting access to the Company’s share 
capital, of their pre -emptive subscription rights to the 
shares to which these securities will grant entitlement 
immediately or in the future; 
 —  takes due note that, in accordance with Article 
L.  225 -134  of the French Commercial Code, if 
subscriptions pursuant to priority rights and any 
pro-rated subscriptions do not absorb the entire issue, 
the Board of Directors may use, in the conditions 
provided by law and in the order it sees fit, any or all of 
the options listed below: – allocate at its discretion some or all of the shares or 
in the case of securities granting access to the share 
capital, some or all of the securities whose issue has 
been decided but are not subscribed,
 –  offer to the public (on the French market or on 
a foreign market) some or all of the shares or in 
the case of securities granting access to the share 
capital, some or all of the securities whose issue has 
been decided but are not subscribed,
 –  generally limit the share capital increase to the 
amount of subscriptions received, provided, in the 
case of issues of shares or securities where the 
primary instrument is a share, that the share capital 
increase reaches at least three -quarters of the 
amount of the share capital increase initially decided 
after the use, where applicable, of the above -two 
options; 
 —  resolves that share subscription warrants may also be 
issued without consideration to holders of existing 
shares, it being stipulated that fractional rights and the 
corresponding securities will be sold in accordance with 
applicable legislative and regulatory provisions; 
5  resolves that the Board of Directors shall have full powers, 
with the power of sub -delegation to the extent authorized 
by law, to implement this delegation of authority, and in 
particular to:
 —  decide the issue of shares and/or securities granting 
access, immediately or in the future, to the share capital 
of the Company or other companies; 
 —  determine the amount of the issue, the issue price and 
the amount of any premium that may be required on 
issue or, as the case may be, the amount of reserves, 
profits or any other amounts to be incorporated in the 
share capital; 
 —  determine the dates and terms of the issue and the 
nature, number and characteristics of the shares and/or 
securities to be issued; 
 —  for issues of debt instruments, set all the terms and 
conditions of these securities (particularly their term, 
which may or may not be fixed, whether they are 
subordinated and their remuneration) and amend, 
during the life of these securities, the above terms and 
conditions, in compliance with applicable formalities; 
 —  determine the way in which shares will be paid -up; 
 —  set the terms, where applicable, for the exercise of rights 
(rights to conversion, exchange or redemption, including 
the delivery of Company assets such as treasury shares 
or securities already issued by the Company, as the case 
may be) attached to shares or securities granting access 
to the share capital, and in particular set the date, which 
may be retroactive, from which the new shares will rank 
for dividend, and all other terms and conditions for the 
completion of the share capital increase; 
 —  set the terms on which the Company, where applicable, 
will have the option of purchasing or exchanging 
securities granting access to the share capital on the 
stock market, at any time or during specified periods, 
whether or not such purchase or exchange is performed 
with a view to cancelation in accordance with legal 
provisions; 
 —  provide for the possibility of suspending the exercise 
of the rights attached to shares or securities granting 
access to the share capital in accordance with legal and 
regulatory provisions;

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE C OMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 16, 2024
resolutions presented at the e xtraordinary shareholders’ Meeting
400
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT7 —  offset or not share issue costs against the related 
premiums and deduct from such premiums the sums 
necessary to increase the legal reserve; 
 —  determine and make all adjustments to take account of 
the impact of transactions in the share capital or equity 
of the Company, in particular in the event of a change 
in the par value of the share, a share capital increase by 
capitalizing reserves, profits or additional paid -in capital 
(or any other amounts), a free share grant, a stock split or 
reverse stock split, a distribution of dividends, reserves, 
additional paid -in capital or any other assets, a share 
capital redemption, or any other transaction impacting 
share capital or equity (including in the case of a public 
offer for the Company’s shares and/or a change in 
control) and set, in accordance with legal and regulatory 
provisions and, where applicable, any contractual 
provisions stipulating other additional methods of 
preservation, all terms enabling the preservation, where 
applicable, of the rights of holders of securities or other 
rights granting access to the share capital (including by 
means of cash adjustments); 
 —  duly record completion of each share capital increase and 
make the corresponding amendments to the bylaws;  —  generally, enter into all agreements, in particular to achieve 
the successful completion of the issue, take all measures 
and accomplish all formalities for the issue, listing and 
financial administration of securities issued by virtue of this 
delegation and for the exercise of the rights; 
6  takes due note that, in the event the Board of Directors 
uses the delegation of authority granted pursuant to this 
resolution, the Board of Directors will report to the next 
Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting, in accordance with the 
law and regulations, on the use made of the authorizations 
conferred in this resolution; 
7  resolves that the Board of Directors may not, without 
prior authorization of a Shareholders’ Meeting, use this 
delegation of authority following a third party public offer 
for the Company’s shares, until the end of the offer period; 
8  grants this delegation of authority for a period of twenty -six 
months as from the date of this Shareholders’ Meeting; 
9  takes due note that this delegation supersedes from this 
date, in the amount of any unused portion, the delegation 
granted by the 22nd resolution adopted by the Shareholders’ 
Meeting of May 19, 2022.
PRESENTATION OF THE 20TH RESOLUTION
SHARE CAPITAL INCREASE WITH CANCELATION OF PRE ‑EMPTIVE SUBSCRIPTION RIGHTS BY WAY OF 
PUBLIC OFFERS OTHER THAN THOSE REFERRED TO IN ARTICLE L. 411‑2 1° OF THE FRENCH MONETARY AND 
FINANCIAL CODE
Overview
This resolution asks shareholders to authorize the Board of Directors 
to increase the share capital, on one or more occasions, by issuing 
shares of the Company (excluding preference shares), and/or 
securities granting access, immediately or in the future, to the 
share capital of the Company or other companies, with cancelation 
of pre -emptive subscription rights, by way of public offers other 
than those referred to in Article 411‑2 1° of the French Monetary 
and Financial Code . Such securities may be issued in particular as 
consideration for securities meeting the conditions laid down in 
Article L. 22 -10-54 of the French Commercial Code that may be 
contributed to the Company in connection with a public exchange 
offer initiated by the Company in France or abroad under local rules 
(for example in connection with a “reverse merger” or a “scheme 
of arrangement”).
This delegation would also allow the Board of Directors to decide 
issues of shares or securities granting access to the Company’s 
share capital to be carried out further to the issue, by companies 
in which the Company directly or indirectly owns more than half 
the share capital, of securities granting access to the Company’s 
share capital.
Pursuant to this resolution, you are asked to cancel pre -emptive 
subscription rights. Depending on market conditions, the nature of 
investors concerned by the issue and the type of securities issued, 
it may be preferable, or even necessary to cancel pre -emptive 
subscription rights in order for the securities to be placed on the 
best possible terms, particularly when speed is essential to the 
success of an issue. The Board of Directors may, nonetheless, decide 
to grant shareholders a priority subscription period pursuant to 
Article L. 22 -10-51 of the French Commercial Code.
The maximum par value amount of share capital increases that 
may be carried out under this delegation is set at €135 million, it 
being stipulated that this amount will count towards the overall 
ceiling applicable to all share capital increases by issuing shares and/or securities granting access to the share capital provided for 
in paragraph 2 of the 19th  resolution.
Should debt instruments granting access immediately or in the 
future to the share capital be issued, the nominal amount of such 
issues may not exceed €5,900 million, it being stipulated that this 
amount will count towards the overall ceiling applicable to all 
issues of debt instruments in the case of share capital increases 
by issuing shares and/or securities granting access to the share 
capital provided for in paragraph 3 of the 19th  resolution.
Added to these ceilings will be the par value amount of any shares 
to be issued to preserve, in accordance with legal and regulatory 
provisions and, where applicable, any contractual terms stipulating 
other cases where adjustment is necessary, the rights of holders 
of securities or other rights granting access to the share capital.
Pursuant to the provisions of Article L. 22 -10-52, paragraph 1, of the 
French Commercial Code, the issue price of shares issued directly will 
be at least equal to the minimum stipulated by applicable regulations 
at the date of the issue (currently, the weighted average price of the 
Company’s share on the Euronext Paris regulated market during the 
three trading days preceding the offer start date, less a maximum 
discount of 10%) after making any adjustments to that average in 
the event of differences in dividend ranking dates. The issue price 
of securities granting access to the share capital, immediately or in 
the future, will be such that the amount received immediately by 
the Company plus any amount to be received subsequently by the 
Company will, for each share issued as a consequence of the issue 
of such securities, be at least equal to the minimum subscription 
price per share set by regulations.
This delegation of authority would be granted for a period of 
twenty -six months.
This delegation would supersede that granted by the 23rd  resolution 
adopted by the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 19, 2022.

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE C OMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 16, 2024
resolutions presented at the e xtraordinary shareholders’ Meeting
401
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI7TWENTIETH RESOLUTION
Delegation of authority to the Board of Directors, for a period of twenty‑six months, to issue, with 
cancelation of pre‑emptive subscription rights, ordinary shares and/or securities granting access, 
immediately or in the future, to the Company’s share capital by way of public offers other than those referred 
to in Article L. 411‑2 1° of the French Monetary and Financial Code
The Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum and 
majority rules for Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, having 
read the Board of Directors’ report and the Statutory auditors’ 
special report and in accordance with Articles L. 225 -129 et seq.  of 
the French Commercial Code and particularly Articles L. 225 -129, 
L. 225 -129-2, L. 225 -135, L. 225 -136 and the provisions of Articles 
L. 22 -10-51, L. 22 -10-52, L. 22 -10-54 and L. 228 -91 et seq.  of the 
French Commercial Code:
1  delegates to the Board of Directors, with the power of 
sub-delegation to the extent authorized by law, its authority 
to decide a share capital increase with cancelation of 
pre-emptive subscription rights, by way of public offers 
other than those referred to in Article L.  411 -2-1°  of the 
French Monetary and Financial Code, on one or more 
occasions, in France or abroad, in the proportions and at 
the times it sees fit, in euros or in any other currency or 
currency unit established by reference to more than one 
currency, with or without a share premium, whether for 
valuable consideration or without consideration, by issuing 
(i) shares of the Company (excluding preference shares), and/
or (ii) securities governed by Articles L. 228 -92 paragraph 1, 
L. 228 -93 paragraphs 1 and 3 or L. 228 -94 paragraph 2 of the 
French Commercial Code granting access, immediately or 
in the future, at any time or at fixed dates, by subscription, 
conversion, exchange, redemption, presentation of a 
warrant or any other means, to the share capital (including 
equity securities granting rights to the allocation of debt 
instruments) of the Company or other companies (including 
companies in which the Company owns directly or indirectly 
more than half the share capital), it being stipulated that 
the shares may be paid -up in cash, by offset of debt, or by 
capitalizing reserves, profits or additional paid -in capital. 
Such securities may be issued in particular as consideration 
for securities meeting the conditions laid down in Article 
L.  22 -10-54  of the French Commercial Code that may be 
contributed to the Company in connection with a public 
exchange offer initiated by the Company in France or abroad 
under local rules (for example in connection with a “reverse 
merger” or a “scheme of arrangement”).
2  delegates to this end to the Board of Directors, with the 
power of sub -delegation to the extent authorized by law, 
its authority to decide issues of shares and/or securities 
granting access, directly or indirectly, to the Company’s share 
capital to be carried out further to the issue, by companies 
in which the Company directly or indirectly owns more than 
half the share capital, of securities granting access to the 
Company’s share capital; 
This decision involves the waiver by shareholders, in favor of 
holders of securities that may be issued by companies of the 
Company’s group, of their pre -emptive subscription rights to 
the shares or securities granting access to the Company’s share 
capital to which these securities grant entitlement; 
3  resolves to set the following limits on authorized share 
capital increases in the event of use by the Board of Directors 
of this delegation of authority:
 —  the maximum par value amount of share capital increases 
that may be carried out under this delegation is set at 
€135  million or the equivalent in any other currency or 
currency unit established by reference to more than one 
currency, it being stipulated that this amount will count 
towards the overall ceiling for share capital increases set 
in paragraph 2 of the 19th resolution of this Shareholders’ 
Meeting or, as the case may be, towards any overall ceiling stipulated by a resolution of the same kind that 
may supersede said resolution during the period of 
validity of this delegation; 
 —  added to these ceilings will be the par value amount of 
any shares to be issued to preserve, in accordance with 
legal and regulatory provisions and, where applicable, 
any contractual terms stipulating other cases where 
adjustment is necessary, the rights of holders of 
securities or other rights granting access to the share 
capital,
 —  in the case of a share capital increase by capitalizing 
additional paid -in capital, reserves, profits or any other 
amounts and granting free shares during the period 
of validity of this delegation, the above ceilings will be 
adjusted based on the ratio between the number of 
shares issued and outstanding before and after the 
transaction; 
4  resolves to set the following limits on authorized debt 
instruments on the issue of securities representing debt 
instruments granting access, immediately or in the future, to 
the share capital of the Company or other companies:
 —  the maximum nominal value of debt instruments that 
may be issued immediately or in the future under this 
delegation is set at €5,900  million or the equivalent 
in any other currency or currency unit established by 
reference to more than one currency at the issue date, it 
being stipulated that this amount will count towards the 
overall ceiling set in paragraph  3  of the 19th  resolution 
of this Shareholders’ Meeting or, as the case may be, 
towards any overall ceiling stipulated by a resolution of 
the same kind that may supersede said resolution during 
the period of validity of this delegation; 
 —  these limits will be increased, where applicable, for any 
redemption premium above par; 
 —  these limits are independent of the amount of any debt 
instrument issue decided or authorized by the Board 
of Directors in accordance with Articles L.  228 -36-A, 
L. 228 -40, L. 228 -92 paragraph 3, L. 228 -93 paragraph 6 
and L.  228 -94  paragraph  3, of the French Commercial 
Code; 
5  resolves to cancel shareholders’ pre -emptive subscription 
rights in respect of the securities covered by this resolution, 
whilst however giving the Board of Directors discretion 
pursuant to Article L.  22 -10-51  of the French Commercial 
Code to grant shareholders, for a period and on terms to be 
set by the Board of Directors in compliance with applicable 
laws and regulations, and for all or part of any issue that 
may be carried out, a priority subscription period that 
does not give rise to negotiable rights and which must be 
exercised in proportion to the quantity of shares owned by 
each shareholder and which may be supplemented by an 
application to subscribe for shares on a pro -rated basis, it 
being stipulated that securities not thus subscribed may be 
offered to the public in France or abroad; 
6  resolves that if subscriptions, including where applicable by 
shareholders, do not absorb the entire issue, the Board of 
Directors may limit the issue to the amount of subscriptions 
received, provided, in the case of issues of shares or 
securities where the primary instrument is a share, that the 
share capital increase reaches at least three -quarters of the 
amount of the issue decided;

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE C OMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 16, 2024
resolutions presented at the e xtraordinary shareholders’ Meeting
402
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT77  takes due note that this delegation involves the express 
waiver by shareholders, in favor of holders of securities 
issued granting access to the Company’s share capital, of 
their pre -emptive subscription rights to the shares to which 
the securities will grant entitlement immediately or in the 
future; 
8  takes due note that, in accordance with paragraph  1  of 
Article L. 22 -10-52 of the French Commercial Code:
 —  the issue price of shares issued directly will be at 
least equal to the minimum stipulated by applicable 
regulations at the date of the issue (currently, the 
weighted average price of the Company’s share on 
the Euronext Paris regulated market during the three 
trading days preceding the date on which the price is 
set, less a maximum discount of 10%) after making any 
adjustments to that average in the event of differences 
in dividend ranking dates; 
 —  the issue price of securities granting access to the share 
capital, immediately or in the future, and the number of 
shares to which conversion, redemption or more generally 
transformation of each security granting access to the 
share capital would confer entitlement, will be such that 
the amount received immediately by the Company plus 
any amount to be received subsequently by the Company 
will, for each share issued as a consequence of the issue 
of such securities, be at least equal to the minimum 
subscription price defined in the previous paragraph; 
9  resolves that the Board of Directors shall have full powers, 
with the power of sub -delegation to the extent authorized 
by law, to implement this delegation of authority, and in 
particular to:
 —  decide the issue of shares and/or securities granting 
access, immediately or in the future, to the share capital 
of the Company or other companies; 
 —  determine the amount of the issue, the issue price and 
the amount of any premium that may be required on 
issue or, as the case may be, the amount of reserves, 
profits or any other amounts to be incorporated in the 
share capital; 
 —  determine the dates and terms of the issue and the 
nature, number and characteristics of the shares and/or 
securities to be issued; 
 —  for issues of debt instruments, set all the terms and 
conditions of these securities (particularly their term, 
which may or may not be fixed, whether they are 
subordinated and their remuneration) and amend, 
during the life of these securities, the above terms and 
conditions, in compliance with applicable formalities; 
 —  determine the way in which shares will be paid -up; 
 —  set the terms, where applicable, for the exercise of rights 
(rights to conversion, exchange or redemption, including 
the delivery of Company assets such as treasury shares or 
securities already issued by the Company, as the case may 
be) attached to shares or securities granting access to the 
share capital to be issued, and in particular set the date, 
which may be retroactive, from which the new shares will 
rank for dividend, and all other terms and conditions for 
the completion of the share capital increase;  —  set the terms on which the Company, where applicable, 
will have the option of purchasing or exchanging 
securities granting access to the share capital on the 
stock market, at any time or during specified periods, 
whether or not such purchase or exchange is performed 
with a view to cancelation in accordance with legal 
provisions; 
 —  provide for the possibility of suspending the exercise 
of the rights attached to shares or securities granting 
access to the share capital in accordance with legal and 
regulatory provisions; 
 —  in the event of an issue of securities intended as 
consideration for securities contributed to the 
Company in connection with a public offer with an 
exchange component (public exchange offer), draw 
up a list of securities contributed to the exchange, set 
the conditions of the issue, the exchange ratio and the 
amount of any cash portion to be paid, without the 
method for determining the price set in paragraph 8 of 
this resolution becoming applicable, and determine the 
terms of the issue in connection with a public exchange 
offer, or an alternative cash or exchange offer, or a single 
offer to purchase or exchange the securities in question 
in return for payment in securities and cash, or a principal 
public cash offer or public exchange offer accompanied 
by a subsidiary public exchange offer or public cash offer, 
or any other form of public offer in compliance with the 
laws and regulations applicable to public offers; 
 —  offset or not share issue costs against the related 
premiums and deduct from such premiums the sums 
necessary to increase the legal reserve; 
 —  determine and make all adjustments to take account of 
the impact of transactions in the share capital or equity 
of the Company, in particular in the event of a change 
in the par value of the share, a share capital increase by 
capitalizing reserves, profits or additional paid -in capital 
(or any other amounts), a free share grant, a stock split or 
reverse stock split, a distribution of dividends, reserves, 
additional paid -in capital or any other assets, a share 
capital redemption, or any other transaction impacting 
share capital or equity (including in the case of a public 
offer for the Company’s shares and/or a change in 
control) and set, in accordance with legal and regulatory 
provisions and, where applicable, any contractual 
provisions stipulating other additional methods of 
preservation, all terms enabling the preservation, where 
applicable, of the rights of holders of securities or other 
rights granting access to the share capital (including by 
means of cash adjustments); 
 —  duly record completion of each share capital increase and 
make the corresponding amendments to the bylaws; 
 —  generally, enter into all agreements, in particular to 
achieve the successful completion of the issue, take all 
measures and accomplish all formalities for the issue, 
listing and financial administration of securities issued 
by virtue of this delegation and for the exercise of the 
rights; 
10  resolves that the Board of Directors may not, without 
prior authorization of a Shareholders’ Meeting, use this 
delegation of authority following a third party public offer 
for the Company’s shares, until the end of the offer period;

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE C OMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 16, 2024
resolutions presented at the e xtraordinary shareholders’ Meeting
403
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI711  takes due note that, in the event the Board of Directors 
uses the delegation of authority granted pursuant to this 
resolution, the Board of Directors will report to the next 
Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting, in accordance with the 
law and regulations, on the use made of the authorizations 
conferred in this resolution;12  grants this delegation of authority for a period of twenty -six 
months as from the date of this Shareholders’ Meeting; 
13  takes due note that this delegation supersedes from this 
date, in the amount of any unused portion, the delegation 
granted by the 23rd resolution adopted by the Shareholders’ 
Meeting of May 19, 2022.
PRESENTATION OF THE 21ST RESOLUTION
SHARE CAPITAL INCREASE WITH CANCELATION OF PRE ‑EMPTIVE SUBSCRIPTION RIGHTS BY WAY OF 
PUBLIC OFFERS REFERRED TO IN ARTICLE L. 411‑2 1° OF THE FRENCH MONETARY AND FINANCIAL CODE
Overview
This resolution asks shareholders to authorize the Board of Directors 
to increase the share capital, on one or more occasions, by issuing 
shares (excluding preference shares), and/or securities granting 
access, immediately or in the future, to the share capital of the 
Company or other companies, with cancelation of pre -emptive 
subscription rights, by way of public offers referred to in Article 
411‑2 1° of the French Monetary and Financial Code .
This delegation would enable the Company to optimize its access 
to capital and benefit from the best market conditions, as this 
financing method is both faster and simpler than a share capital 
increase by way of a public offer other than those referred to In 
Article L. 411 -2 1° of the French Monetary and Financial Code. 
Shareholders are asked to cancel pre -emptive subscription rights to 
allow the Board of Directors to carry out financing transactions, in 
accordance with simplified terms and conditions, by way of public 
offers referred to in Article L. 411 -2 1° of the French Monetary and 
Financial Code.
This delegation would also allow the Board of Directors to decide 
issues of shares or securities granting access to the Company’s 
share capital to be carried out further to the issue, by companies 
in which the Company directly or indirectly owns more than half 
the share capital, of securities granting access to the Company’s 
share capital.
The maximum par value amount of share capital increases that may 
be carried out under this delegation is set at €135 million, it being 
stipulated that this amount will count towards the ceiling specific 
to share capital increases without pre -emptive subscription rights 
provided for in paragraph 3 of the 20th  resolution and the overall 
ceiling applicable to all share capital increases by issuing shares 
and/or securities granting access to the share capital provided for 
in paragraph 2 of the 19th  resolution.Should debt instruments granting access immediately or in the future 
to the share capital be issued, the nominal amount of such issues 
may not exceed €5,900 million, it being stipulated that this amount 
will count towards the ceiling provided for in paragraph 4 of the 
20th  resolution and the overall ceiling applicable to issues of debt 
instruments in the case of share capital increases by issuing shares 
and/or securities granting access to the share capital provided for 
in paragraph 3 of the 19th  resolution.
Added to these ceilings will be the par value amount of any shares 
to be issued to preserve, in accordance with legal and regulatory 
provisions and, where applicable, any contractual terms stipulating 
other cases where adjustment is necessary, the rights of holders 
of securities or other rights granting access to the share capital.
Pursuant to the provisions of Article L. 22 -10-52, paragraph 1, of the 
French Commercial Code, the issue price of shares issued directly will 
be at least equal to the minimum stipulated by applicable regulations 
at the date of the issue (currently, the weighted average price of the 
Company’s share on the Euronext Paris regulated market during the 
three trading days preceding the offer start date, less a maximum 
discount of 10%) after making any adjustments to that average in 
the event of differences in dividend ranking dates. The issue price 
of securities granting access to the share capital, immediately or in 
the future, will be such that the amount received immediately by 
the Company plus any amount to be received subsequently by the 
Company will, for each share issued as a consequence of the issue 
of such securities, be at least equal to the minimum subscription 
price per share set by regulations.
This delegation of authority would be granted for a period of 
twenty -six months.
This delegation would supersede that granted by the 24th  resolution 
adopted by the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 19, 2022.
TWENTY ‑FIRST RESOLUTION
Delegation of authority to the Board of Directors, for a period of twenty‑six months, to issue, with 
cancelation of pre‑emptive subscription rights, ordinary shares and/or securities granting access, 
immediately or in the future, to the Company’s share capital by way of public offers referred to in Article 
L. 411‑2 1° of the French Monetary and Financial Code
The Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum 
and majority rules for Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, 
having read the Board of Directors’ report and the Statutory 
auditors’ special report and in accordance with Articles L. 225 -129 
et seq.  of the French Commercial Code and in particular Articles 
L. 225 -129, L. 225 -129-2, L. 225 -135, L. 225 -136 and the provisions of 
Articles L. 22 -10-51, L. 22 -10-52 and L. 228 -91 et seq.  of the French 
Commercial Code and Article L. 411 -2 1° of the French Monetary 
and Financial Code:
1  delegates to the Board of Directors, with the power of 
sub-delegation to the extent authorized by law, its authority 
to decide a share capital increase with cancelation of 
pre-emptive subscription rights, by way of public offers 
referred to in Article L.  411 -2-1°  of the French Monetary 
and Financial Code, on one or more occasions, in France or abroad, in the proportions and at the times it sees fit, in 
euros or in any other currency or currency unit established 
by reference to more than one currency, with or without 
a share premium, whether for valuable consideration or 
without consideration, by issuing (i) shares of the Company 
(excluding preference shares), and/or (ii) securities governed 
by Articles L. 228 -92 paragraph 1, L. 228 -93 paragraphs 1 and 
3 or L. 228 -94 paragraph 2 of the French Commercial Code 
granting access, immediately or in the future, at any time 
or at fixed dates, by subscription, conversion, exchange, 
redemption, presentation of a warrant or any other means, 
to the share capital (including equity securities granting 
rights to the allocation of debt instruments) of the Company 
or other companies (including companies in which the 
Company owns directly or indirectly more than half the share 
capital), it being stipulated that the shares may be paid -up in 

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE C OMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 16, 2024
resolutions presented at the e xtraordinary shareholders’ Meeting
404
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT7cash, by offset of debt, or by capitalizing reserves, profits or 
additional paid -in capital; 
2  delegates to this end to the Board of Directors, with the 
power of sub -delegation to the extent authorized by law, 
its authority to decide issues of shares or securities granting 
access, directly or indirectly, to the Company’s share capital 
to be carried out further to the issue, by companies in which 
the Company directly or indirectly owns more than half the 
share capital, of securities granting access to the Company’s 
share capital; 
This decision involves the waiver by shareholders, in favor of 
holders of securities that may be issued by companies of the 
Company’s group, of their pre -emptive subscription rights to 
the shares or securities granting access to the Company’s share 
capital to which these securities grant entitlement; 
3  resolves to set the following limits on authorized share 
capital increases in the event of use by the Board of Directors 
of this delegation of authority:
 —  the maximum par value amount of share capital increases 
that may be carried out under this delegation is set at 
€135  million or the equivalent in any other currency or 
currency unit established by reference to more than 
one currency, it being stipulated that this amount will 
count towards the ceiling set in paragraph  3  of the 
20th resolution and the overall ceiling set in paragraph 2 of 
the 19th  resolution or, as the case may be, towards any 
ceilings stipulated by resolutions of the same kind that 
may supersede said resolutions during the period of 
validity of this delegation; 
 —  in all events, equity securities issued pursuant to this 
delegation may not exceed the limits set by applicable 
regulations at the issue date (currently 20% of the share 
capital per year); 
 —  added to these ceilings will be the par value amount of 
any shares to be issued to preserve, in accordance with 
legal and regulatory provisions and, where applicable, 
any contractual terms stipulating other cases where 
adjustment is necessary, the rights of holders of 
securities or other rights granting access to the share 
capital,
 —  in the case of a share capital increase by capitalizing 
additional paid -in capital, reserves, profits or any other 
amounts and granting free shares during the period 
of validity of this delegation, the above ceilings will be 
adjusted based on the ratio between the number of 
shares issued and outstanding before and after the 
transaction; 
4  resolves to set the following limits on authorized debt 
instruments on the issue of securities representing debt 
instruments granting access, immediately or in the future, to 
the share capital of the Company or other companies:
 —  the maximum nominal value of debt instruments that 
may be issued immediately or in the future under this 
delegation is set at €5,900 million or the equivalent in any 
other currency or currency unit established by reference 
to more than one currency at the issue date, it being 
stipulated that this amount will count towards the ceiling 
set in paragraph 4 of the 20th resolution and the overall 
ceiling set in paragraph  3  of the 19th  resolution of this 
Shareholders’ Meeting or, as the case may be, towards 
any ceilings stipulated by resolutions of the same kind that may supersede said resolutions during the period of 
validity of this delegation; 
 —  these limits will be increased, where applicable, for any 
redemption premium above par; 
 —  these limits are independent of the amount of any debt 
instrument issue decided or authorized by the Board 
of Directors in accordance with Articles L.  228 -36-A, 
L. 228 -40, L. 228 -92 paragraph 3, L. 228 -93 paragraph 6 
and L.  228 -94  paragraph  3, of the French Commercial 
Code; 
5  resolves to cancel shareholders’ pre -emptive subscription 
rights in respect of the securities covered by this delegation; 
6  resolves that if subscriptions, including where applicable by 
shareholders, do not absorb the entire issue, the Board of 
Directors may limit the issue to the amount of subscriptions 
received, provided, in the case of issues of shares or 
securities where the primary instrument is a share, that the 
share capital increase reaches at least three -quarters of the 
amount of the issue decided; 
7  takes due note that this delegation involves the express 
waiver by shareholders, in favor of holders of securities 
issued granting access to the Company’s share capital, of 
their pre -emptive subscription rights to the shares to which 
the securities will grant entitlement immediately or in the 
future; 
8  takes due note that, in accordance with paragraph  1  of 
Article L. 22 -10-52 of the French Commercial Code:
 —  the issue price of shares issued directly will be at 
least equal to the minimum stipulated by applicable 
regulations at the date of the issue (currently, the 
weighted average price of the Company’s share on 
the Euronext Paris regulated market during the three 
trading days preceding the date on which the price is 
set, less a maximum discount of 10%) after making any 
adjustments to that average in the event of differences 
in dividend ranking dates; 
 —  the issue price of securities granting access to the share 
capital, immediately or in the future, and the number of 
shares to which conversion, redemption or more generally 
transformation of each security granting access to the 
share capital would confer entitlement, will be such that 
the amount received immediately by the Company plus 
any amount to be received subsequently by the Company 
will, for each share issued as a consequence of the issue 
of such securities, be at least equal to the minimum 
subscription price defined in the previous paragraph; 
9  resolves that the Board of Directors, with the power of 
sub-delegation to the extent authorized by law, shall have 
full powers to implement this delegation of authority, and 
in particular:
 —  decide the issue of shares and/or securities granting 
access, immediately or in the future, to the share capital 
of the Company or other companies; 
 —  determine the amount of the issue, the issue price and 
the amount of any premium that may be required on 
issue or, as the case may be, the amount of reserves, 
profits or any other amounts to be incorporated in the 
share capital; 
 —  determine the dates and terms of the issue and the 
nature, number and characteristics of the shares and/or 
securities to be issued;

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE C OMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 16, 2024
resolutions presented at the e xtraordinary shareholders’ Meeting
405
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI7 —  for issues of debt instruments, set all the terms and 
conditions of these securities (particularly their term, 
which may or may not be fixed, whether they are 
subordinated and their remuneration) and amend, 
during the life of these securities, the above terms and 
conditions, in compliance with applicable formalities; 
 —  determine the way in which shares will be paid -up; 
 —  set the terms, where applicable, for the exercise of rights 
(rights to conversion, exchange or redemption, including 
the delivery of Company assets such as treasury shares or 
securities already issued by the Company, as the case may 
be) attached to shares or securities granting access to the 
share capital to be issued, and in particular set the date, 
which may be retroactive, from which the new shares will 
rank for dividend, and all other terms and conditions for 
the completion of the share capital increase; 
 —  set the terms on which the Company, where applicable, 
will have the option of purchasing or exchanging 
securities granting access to the share capital on the 
stock market, at any time or during specified periods, 
whether or not such purchase or exchange is performed 
with a view to cancelation in accordance with legal 
provisions; 
 —  provide for the possibility of suspending the exercise 
of the rights attached to shares or securities granting 
access to the share capital in accordance with legal and 
regulatory provisions; 
 —  offset or not share issue costs against the related 
premiums and deduct from such premiums the sums 
necessary to increase the legal reserve; 
 —  determine and make all adjustments to take account of 
the impact of transactions in the share capital or equity 
of the Company, in particular in the event of a change 
in the par value of the share, a share capital increase by 
capitalizing reserves, profits or additional paid -in capital 
(or any other amounts), a free share grant, a stock split or reverse stock split, a distribution of dividends, reserves, 
additional paid -in capital or any other assets, a share 
capital redemption, or any other transaction impacting 
share capital or equity (including in the case of a public 
offer for the Company’s shares and/or a change in 
control) and set, in accordance with legal and regulatory 
provisions and, where applicable, any contractual 
provisions stipulating other additional methods of 
preservation, all terms enabling the preservation, where 
applicable, of the rights of holders of securities or other 
rights granting access to the share capital (including by 
means of cash adjustments); 
 —  duly record completion of each share capital increase and 
make the corresponding amendments to the bylaws; 
 —  generally, enter into all agreements, in particular to 
achieve the successful completion of the issue, take all 
measures and accomplish all formalities for the issue, 
listing and financial administration of securities issued by 
virtue of this delegation and for the exercise of the rights 
attached.
10  resolves that the Board of Directors may not, without 
prior authorization of a Shareholders’ Meeting, use this 
delegation of authority following a third party public offer 
for the Company’s shares, until the end of the offer period; 
11  takes due note that, in the event the Board of Directors 
uses the delegation of authority granted pursuant to this 
resolution, the Board of Directors will report to the next 
Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting, in accordance with the 
law and regulations, on the use made of the authorizations 
conferred in this resolution; 
12  grants this delegation of authority for a period of twenty -six 
months as from the date of this Shareholders’ Meeting; 
13  takes due note that this delegation supersedes from this 
date, in the amount of any unused portion, the delegation 
granted by the 24th resolution adopted by the Shareholders’ 
Meeting of May 19, 2022.
PRESENTATION OF THE 22nd RESOLUTION
SETTING OF THE ISSUE PRICE UP TO A MAXIMUM OF 10% OF THE SHARE CAPITAL PURSUANT TO A SHARE 
CAPITAL INCREASE WITH CANCELATION OF PRE ‑EMPTIVE SUBSCRIPTION RIGHTS
Overview
This resolution asks shareholders to authorize the Board of Directors, 
in the event of a share capital increase by issuing equity securities 
with cancelation of pre -emptive subscription rights pursuant to 
the 20th  and 21st  resolutions, to set the issue price of shares at 
an amount at least equal to the lower of the average price of the 
Capgemini share on the Euronext Paris regulated market, weighted 
for trading volumes on the last trading day preceding the setting of 
the issue price and the average price of the share on the Euronext Paris regulated market, weighted for trading volumes on the trading 
day when the issue price is set, in both cases potentially reduced 
by a discount of up to 10%.
The par value amount of share capital increases that may be 
performed immediately or in the future pursuant to this authorization 
is set, in accordance with the law, at 10% of the share capital per 
12-month period.
TWENTY ‑SECOND RESOLUTION
Authorization to the Board of Directors, on the issue of ordinary shares and/or securities granting access 
to the Company’s share capital, immediately or in the future, with cancelation of pre‑emptive subscription 
rights, to set the issue price in accordance with the terms set by the Shareholders’ Meeting, up to a maximum 
of 10% of the share capital per twelve‑month period
The Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum and 
majority rules for Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, having read 
the Board of Directors’ report and the Statutory auditors’ special 
report and in accordance with Article L. 22 -10-52 paragraph 2 of 
the French Commercial Code:1  authorizes the Board of Directors, with the power of 
sub-delegation to the extent authorized by law, in the case of 
a share capital increase by way of an issue of equity securities 
with cancelation of pre -emptive subscription rights pursuant 
to the 20th and 21st resolutions of this Shareholders’ Meeting, 
to set the issue price as follows:

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE C OMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 16, 2024
resolutions presented at the e xtraordinary shareholders’ Meeting
406
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT7 — the issue price of shares will be at least equal to the lower 
of the average price of the share on the Euronext Paris 
regulated market, weighted for trading volumes on the 
last trading day preceding the setting of the issue price 
and the average price of the share on the Euronext Paris 
regulated market, weighted for trading volumes on the 
trading day when the issue price is set, in both cases 
potentially reduced by a discount of up to 10%; 
 —  the issue price of securities granting access to the share 
capital, immediately or in the future, and the number of 
shares to which conversion, redemption or more generally 
transformation of each security granting access to the 
share capital would confer entitlement, will be such that 
the amount received immediately by the Company plus 
any amount to be received subsequently by the Company 
will, for each share issued as a consequence of the issue of such securities, be at least equal to the minimum 
subscription price defined in the previous paragraph; 
2  resolves that the par value amount of share capital increases 
that may be performed immediately or in the future pursuant 
to this authorization is set, in accordance with the law, at 10% 
of the share capital per 12 -month period (it being stipulated 
that this limit will be assessed at the date of the decision to 
issue shares and/or securities granting access to the share 
capital); 
3  takes due note that, in the event the Board of Directors 
uses this authorization, it will prepare an additional report, 
certified by the Statutory auditors, describing the definitive 
terms of the transaction and providing information enabling 
an assessment of the effective impact on shareholder 
positions.
PRESENTATION OF THE 23RD RESOLUTION
INCREASE IN THE NUMBER OF SECURITIES TO BE ISSUED IN THE EVENT OF A SHARE CAPITAL INCREASE 
WITH RETENTION OR CANCELATION OF PRE ‑EMPTIVE SUBSCRIPTION RIGHTS
Overview
This resolution asks shareholders to authorize the Board of 
Directors to increase the number of securities to be issued in the 
event of a share capital increase with retention or cancelation of 
pre-emptive subscription rights, at the same price as that of the 
initial issue, within the limits as to time and quantity specified in 
applicable regulations at the date of the issue (currently, within 
thirty days of the closure of subscriptions and up to a maximum 
of 15% of the initial issue), in particular with a view to granting a 
Greenshoe  option in accordance with market practices.
The maximum par value amount of share capital increases that 
may be carried out under this delegation will count towards the ceiling stipulated in the resolution pursuant to which the initial 
issue is decided and the overall ceiling applicable to all share capital 
increases by issuing shares and/or securities granting access to 
the share capital. The nominal amount of debt instruments issued 
pursuant to this resolution will count towards the ceiling stipulated 
in the resolution pursuant to which the initial issue is decided and 
the overall ceiling set in paragraph 3 of the 19th  resolution.
This delegation of authority would be granted for a period of 
twenty -six months.
This delegation would supersede that granted by the 26th  resolution 
adopted by the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 19, 2022.
TWENTY ‑THIRD RESOLUTION
Delegation of authority to the Board of Directors, for a period of twenty‑six months, to increase the number 
of securities to be issued in the event of a share capital increase (through the issue of ordinary shares or 
securities granting access to the share capital, immediately or in the future) with retention or cancelation of 
pre-emptive subscription rights
The Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum and 
majority rules for Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, having 
read the Board of Directors’ report and the Statutory auditors’ 
special report and in accordance with Articles L. 225 -129-2 and 
L. 225 -135-1 of the French Commercial Code:
1  delegates to the Board of Directors, with the power of 
sub-delegation to the extent authorized by law, its authority 
to decide to increase the number of securities to be issued 
in the event of a share capital increase (through the issue 
of ordinary shares or securities granting access to the 
share capital immediately or in the future) with retention 
or cancelation of pre -emptive subscription rights, at the 
same price as that of the initial issue, within the limits as to 
time and quantity specified in applicable regulations at the 
date of the issue (currently, within thirty days of the closure 
of subscriptions and up to a maximum of 15% of the initial 
issue), in particular with a view to granting a Greenshoe  option 
in accordance with market practices; 
2  resolves that the par value amount of share capital increases 
decided pursuant to this resolution shall count towards the 
ceiling stipulated in the resolution pursuant to which the initial issue is decided and the overall ceiling set in paragraph 2 of 
the 19th resolution of this Shareholders’ Meeting and that the 
nominal value of debt instruments issued pursuant to this 
resolution shall count towards the ceiling stipulated in the 
resolution pursuant to which the initial issue is decided and 
the overall ceiling set in paragraph 3 of the 19th resolution of 
this Shareholders’ Meeting or, as the case may be, towards 
the ceilings stipulated by resolutions of the same kind that 
may supersede said resolutions during the period of validity 
of this delegation; 
3  resolves that the Board of Directors may not, without 
prior authorization of a Shareholders’ Meeting, use this 
delegation of authority following a third party public offer 
for the Company’s shares, until the end of the offer period; 
4  grants this delegation of authority for a period of twenty -six 
months as from the date of this Shareholders’ Meeting; 
5  takes due note that this delegation supersedes from this 
date, in the amount of any unused portion, the delegation 
granted by the 26th resolution adopted by the Shareholders’ 
Meeting of May 19, 2022.

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE C OMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 16, 2024
resolutions presented at the e xtraordinary shareholders’ Meeting
407
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI7PRESENTATION OF THE 24th RESOLUTION
SHARE CAPITAL INCREASES IN CONSIDERATION FOR CONTRIBUTIONS IN KIND
Overview
This resolution asks shareholders to authorize the Board of 
Directors to issue shares and/or securities granting access to the 
share capital, immediately or in the future, with cancelation of 
pre-emptive subscription rights, in consideration for contributions 
in kind, up to a maximum of 10% of the share capital at the date 
of the Board of Directors’ decision.
Pursuant to legal or regulatory provisions, the Board of Directors 
would approve the valuation of the contributions in kind after 
having read the Statutory Appraiser’s report if such a report is 
issued pursuant to Articles L. 225 -147 and L. 22 -10-53 of the French 
Commercial Code. This report would be presented to the following 
Shareholders’ Meeting.
The maximum par value amount of share capital increases that may 
be carried out under this delegation is set at €135 million, it being 
stipulated that this amount will count towards the ceiling specific 
to share capital increases without pre -emptive subscription rights 
provided for in paragraph 3 of the 20th  resolution and the overall 
ceiling applicable to all share capital increases by issuing shares and/or securities granting access to the share capital provided for 
in paragraph 2 of the 19th  resolution.
Should debt instruments granting access immediately or in the 
future to the share capital be issued, the nominal amount of such 
issues may not exceed €5,900 million, it being stipulated that this 
amount will count towards the ceiling set in paragraph 4 of the 
20th  resolution and the overall ceiling set in paragraph 3 of the 
19th  resolution.
Added to these ceilings will be the par value amount of any shares 
to be issued to preserve, in accordance with legal and regulatory 
provisions and, where applicable, any contractual terms stipulating 
other cases where adjustment is necessary, the rights of holders 
of securities or other rights granting access to the share.
This delegation of authority would be granted for a period of 
twenty -six months.
This delegation would supersede that granted by the 27th  resolution 
adopted by the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 19, 2022.
TWENTY ‑FOURTH RESOLUTION
Authorization to the Board of Directors, for a period of twenty‑six months, to issue ordinary shares and/or 
securities granting access to the Company’s share capital, in consideration for contributions in kind to the 
Company of equity securities or securities granting access to share capital, immediately or in the future, up to 
a maximum of 10% of the share capital
The Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum 
and majority rules for Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, 
having read the Board of Directors’ report and the Statutory 
auditors’ special report and in accordance with Articles L. 225 -129, 
L. 225 -129-2, L. 225 -147, L. 22 -10-53 and L. 228 -91 et seq.  of the 
French Commercial Code:
1  authorizes the Board of Directors, with the power of 
sub-delegation to the extent authorized by law, to perform 
a share capital increase, on one or more occasions, by issuing 
(i) shares of the Company (excluding preference shares), and/
or (ii) securities governed by Articles L. 228 -92 paragraph 1, 
L. 228 -93 paragraphs 1 and 3 or L. 228 -94 paragraph 2 of the 
French Commercial Code granting access, immediately or 
in the future, at any time or at fixed dates, by subscription, 
conversion, exchange, redemption, presentation of a 
warrant or any other means, to the share capital (including 
equity securities granting rights to the allocation of debt 
instruments) of the Company or other companies (including 
companies in which the Company owns directly or indirectly 
more than half the share capital), as consideration for assets 
transferred to the Company comprising equity securities or 
securities granting access to the share capital, in cases where 
Article L. 22 -10-54 of the French Commercial Code does not 
apply; 
2  resolves to set the following limits on authorized share 
capital increases in the event of use by the Board of Directors 
of this authorization:
 —  the maximum par value amount of share capital increases 
that may be carried out under this authorization is set 
at €135  million or the equivalent in any other currency 
or currency unit established by reference to more than 
one currency, it being stipulated that this amount will 
count towards the ceiling set in paragraph  3  of the 
20th resolution and the overall ceiling set in paragraph 2 of 
the 19th  resolution or, as the case may be, towards any 
ceilings stipulated by resolutions of the same kind that may supersede said resolutions during the period of 
validity of this authorization; 
 —  in all events, shares and securities granting access to the 
share capital issued pursuant to this authorization may 
not exceed the limits set by applicable regulations at the 
issue date (currently 10% of the share capital); 
 —  added to these ceilings will be the par value amount of 
any shares to be issued to preserve, in accordance with 
legal and regulatory provisions and, where applicable, 
any contractual terms stipulating other cases where 
adjustment is necessary, the rights of holders of 
securities or other rights granting access to the share 
capital,
 —  in the case of a share capital increase by capitalizing 
additional paid -in capital, reserves, profits or any other 
amounts and granting free shares during the period of 
validity of this authorization, the above ceilings will be 
adjusted based on the ratio between the number of 
shares issued and outstanding before and after the 
transaction; 
3  resolves to set the following limits on authorized debt 
instruments on the issue of securities representing debt 
instruments granting access, immediately or in the future, to 
the share capital of the Company or other companies:
 —  the maximum nominal value of debt instruments that 
may be issued immediately or in the future under this 
authorization is set at €5,900  million or the equivalent 
in any other currency or currency unit established by 
reference to more than one currency at the issue date, it 
being stipulated that this amount will count towards the 
ceiling set in paragraph 4 of the 20th resolution and the 
overall ceiling set in paragraph 3 of the 19th resolution of 
this Shareholders’ Meeting or, as the case may be, towards 
the amount of any ceilings stipulated by resolutions 
of the same kind that may supersede said resolutions 
during the period of validity of this authorization;

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE C OMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 16, 2024
resolutions presented at the e xtraordinary shareholders’ Meeting
408
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT7 —  these limits will be increased, where applicable, for any 
redemption premium above par; 
 —  these limits are independent of the amount of any debt 
instrument issue decided or authorized by the Board 
of Directors in accordance with Articles L.  228 -36-A, 
L. 228 -40, L. 228 -92 paragraph 3, L. 228 -93 paragraph 6 
and L.  228 -94  paragraph  3, of the French Commercial 
Code; 
4  resolves that the Board of Directors shall have full powers, 
with the power of sub -delegation to the extent authorized 
by law, to implement this authorization, and in particular to:
 —  decide the issue of shares and/or securities granting 
access to the Company’s share capital immediately or in 
the future in consideration of assets transferred; 
 —  draw up a list of the equity securities and securities 
granting access to the share capital transferred to the 
Company, approve the valuation of the contributions in 
kind, set the terms of issues of shares and/or securities 
presented in consideration for said contributions and the 
amount of any cash portion to be paid, approve the grant 
of any specific benefits and reduce, if the contributors 
agree, the valuation of contributions or the remuneration 
of specific benefits; 
 —  determine the dates and terms of the issue and the 
nature, number and characteristics of the shares and/or 
securities presented in consideration for contributions 
in kind and amend, during the life of these securities, 
the above terms and characteristics in compliance with 
applicable formalities; 
 —  set the terms, where applicable, for the exercise of rights 
(rights to conversion, exchange or redemption, including 
the delivery of Company assets such as treasury shares or 
securities already issued by the Company, as the case may 
be) attached to shares or securities granting access to the 
share capital to be issued, and in particular set the date, 
which may be retroactive, from which the new shares will 
rank for dividend, and all other terms and conditions for 
the completion of the share capital increase; 
 —  for issues of debt instruments, set all the terms and 
conditions of these securities (particularly their term, 
which may or may not be fixed, whether they are 
subordinated and their remuneration) and amend, 
during the life of these securities, the above terms and 
conditions, in compliance with applicable formalities; 
 —  offset or not share issue costs against the related 
premiums and deduct from such premiums the sums 
necessary to increase the legal reserve; 
 —  set the terms on which the Company, where applicable, 
will have the option of purchasing or exchanging 
securities granting access to the share capital on the stock market, at any time or during specified periods, 
whether or not such purchase or exchange is performed 
with a view to cancelation in accordance with legal 
provisions; 
 —  provide for the possibility of suspending the exercise 
of the rights attached to shares or securities granting 
access to the share capital in accordance with legal and 
regulatory provisions; 
 —  determine and make all adjustments to take account of 
the impact of transactions in the share capital or equity 
of the Company, in particular in the event of a change 
in the par value of the share, a share capital increase by 
capitalizing reserves, profits or additional paid -in capital 
(or any other amounts), a free share grant, a stock split or 
reverse stock split, a distribution of dividends, reserves, 
additional paid -in capital or any other assets, a share 
capital redemption, or any other transaction impacting 
share capital or equity (including in the case of a public 
offer for the Company’s shares and/or a change in 
control) and set, in accordance with legal and regulatory 
provisions and, where applicable, any contractual 
provisions stipulating other additional methods of 
preservation, all terms enabling the preservation, where 
applicable, of the rights of holders of securities or other 
rights granting access to the share capital (including by 
means of cash adjustments); 
 —  duly record completion of each share capital increase and 
make the corresponding amendments to the bylaws; 
 —  generally, enter into all agreements, in particular to 
achieve the successful completion of the issue, take all 
measures and accomplish all formalities for the issue, 
listing and financial administration of securities issued 
by virtue of this authorization and for the exercise of the 
rights; 
5  resolves that the Board of Directors may not, without 
prior authorization of a Shareholders’ Meeting, use this 
authorization following a third party public offer for the 
Company’s shares, until the end of the offer period; 
6  grants this authorization for a period of twenty -six months 
as from the date of this Shareholders’ Meeting; 
7  takes due note that, in the event the Board of Directors 
uses the delegation granted pursuant to this resolution, the 
Statutory Appraiser’s report, if issued pursuant to Articles 
L. 225 -147 and L. 22 -10-53 of the French Commercial Code, 
will be brought to the attention of the next Shareholders’ 
Meeting; 
8  takes due note that this authorization supersedes from this 
date, in the amount of any unused portion, the delegation 
granted by the 27th resolution adopted by the Shareholders’ 
Meeting of May 19, 2022.
PRESENTATION OF THE 25th RESOLUTION
SHARE GRANTS TO EMPLOYEES AND CORPORATE OFFICERS
Overview
Desirous to continue its motivation and retention policy and 
involving employees and managers in the Group’s development, 
the Board of Directors is seeking a new authorization to grant 
additional performance shares, existing or to be issued, subject 
to internal and external performance conditions, during the next 18 months, (with, in the case of shares to be issued, the waiver by 
shareholders of their pre -emptive subscription rights in favor of 
the beneficiaries of the grants) up to a maximum of 1.2% of the 
share capital.

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE C OMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 16, 2024
resolutions presented at the e xtraordinary shareholders’ Meeting
409
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI7The performance conditions recommended by the Board of Directors 
are set out below and in the draft 25th resolution presented to 
you for vote.
At the recommendation of the Compensation Committee, the 
Board of Directors’ meeting of February 13, 2024, wished to 
continue aligning performance conditions with the Group’s 
strategic priorities and, in line with what was implemented for the 
first time in 2018, maintained a performance condition reflecting 
the Group’s corporate, social and environmental responsibility 
strategy (weighting increased in 2023). In addition, the Board of 
Directors wished to allow, as in the past four years, outperformance 
to be taken into account by defining targets conditioning 110% 
of the relative grant for some of the performance conditions for 
all beneficiaries, while capping the total percentage of shares 
vested after recognition of all performance conditions at 100% 
of the initial grant.
Proposed performance conditions for performance share grants
(i)  A market performance condition  determining 40% of grants 
to all beneficiaries, assessed based on the comparative 
performance of the Capgemini SE share against the average 
performance of an unchanged basket comprising nine 
comparable companies in the same business sector and 
from at least five countries (Accenture/Alten/Atos/Tieto/
Sopra Steria/CGI Group/Indra/Infosys and Cognizant are 
recommended) and the CAC 40 and Euro Stoxx Technology 
600 indices.
No shares would vest in respect of the external performance 
condition if the relative performance of the Capgemini SE 
share is less than 100% of the average performance of the 
basket over a three -year period, 100% of the shares would vest if this performance is 110% of that of the basket and 
110% of the target would vest if this performance is 120% of 
that of the basket; 
(ii)  A financial performance condition , determining 40% 
of grants to all beneficiaries, measured by the amount 
of audited and published organic free cash flow for the 
three -year cumulative period from January  1, 2024 to 
December 31, 2026, excluding Group payments to its defined 
benefit pension funds or its other post -employment defined 
benefit plans.
For all beneficiaries, no shares would vest in respect of this 
financial performance condition if the cumulative organic free 
cash flow for the three fiscal years is less than €5,700 million, 
while 100% of the shares would vest if this amount is at least 
€6,100 million and a maximum of 110% would vest if this amount 
is equal to €6,500 million; 
(iii)  A performance condition,  determining 20% of grants to 
all beneficiaries and tied to the Group’s 2026 diversity and 
sustainable development objectives , with each objective 
equally weighted. The diversity objective is based on the 
increase in the percentage of women in Executive leadership 
positions to 31% by the end of the 2024 -2026 period and 
the sustainable development objective would aim to reduce 
greenhouse gas emissions of our own activities, excluded 
employee commuting, by 2026 compared to the situation in 
2019, in accordance with the Group’s ambition.
More information on the methodology used to measure the 
greenhouse gas emissions reduction objective can be found in the 
2023 Universal Registration Document, Section 4.2.1.3.
summary of recommended performance conditions
Performance  
conditionsWeighting 
appliedPercentage of the grant determined by  
each performance condition  (1) 
Market condition: Performance of the 
Capgemini share over a three -year period40%  —  0% if Capgemini share performance < 100% of the average 
performance of the basket
 —  50% if equal to 100%
 —  100% if equal to 110%
 —  110% if at least equal to 120% of the average performance of 
the basket
Financial condition:
Organic free cash flow
for the three -year cumulative period from 
January 1, 2024 to December 31, 202640%  —  0% if organic free cash flow generated over the reference 
period < €5,700 million
 —  50% if equal to €5,700 million
 —  100% if equal to €6,100 million
 —  110% if at least equal to €6,500 million
Csr condition comprising two objectives:
Diversity: increase in the number of women in 
Executive leader positions over a three -year 
period (2024 -2026)10%  —  0% if the percentage of women in Executive leader positions at 
the end of the three -year period < 29.5%
 —  50% if equal to 29.5%
 —  100% if equal to 31%
 —  110% if at least equal to 32.5%
Reduction in GHG emission/employee  
(excluded employee commuting) in 2026 
compared with 201910%  — 0% if the reduction in GHG emissions/employee in 2026 
compared with the reference period < 70%
 —  50% if equal to 70%
 —  100% if equal to 75%
 —  110% if at least equal to 77.5%
(1) For each performance condition: calculation of the number of shares that will ultimately vest between the different levels of performance on a straight -line basis, it being 
understood that the total percentage of shares that will ultimately vest after determination of all performance conditions, may under no circumstances exceed 100% of 
the Initial Grant.

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE C OMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 16, 2024
resolutions presented at the e xtraordinary shareholders’ Meeting
410
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT7other terms and conditions 
As in the past five years, the minimum vesting period for shares 
would remain set at three years, thereby responding favorably to 
the request from investors. In addition, if a retention period for 
vested shares were fixed by your Board, it should not be less than 
one year. The resolution limits to 10% the maximum number of 
shares that may be granted to Executive Corporate Officers, it 
being specified that in this case, the Board of Directors would, 
in accordance with applicable laws, decide the portion of shares 
that must be held by each individual until the end of their term 
of office. The resolution also authorizes the Board of Directors 
to grant up to 15% of the maximum number of shares to Group employees, other than members of the Group Management team 
(the Group Executive Committee), without performance conditions. 
In accordance with the recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF Code, 
performance share grants are undertaken at the same calendar 
periods and are decided by either the Board of Directors’ meeting 
held at the end of July or in October/November. 
recap of the use of authorizations previously granted by 
shareholders’ Meetings 
The use by the Board of Directors of previous resolutions for the 
grant of performance shares is presented in the Group Management 
Report (“Performance share grants”, Section 6.1.4 of the 2023 
Universal Registration Document).
TWENTY ‑FIFTH RESOLUTION
Authorization to the Board of Directors, for a period of eighteen months, to grant performance shares, 
existing or to be issued, to employees and corporate officers of the Company and its French and non ‑French 
subsidiaries, up to a maximum of 1.2% of the Company’s share capital (with, in the case of shares to be issued, 
the waiver by shareholders of their pre‑emptive subscription rights in favor of the beneficiaries of the grants)
In accordance with Articles L. 225 -197-1 et seq.  and L. 22 -10-59 et seq.  
of the French Commercial Code, the Shareholders’ Meeting, voting 
in accordance with quorum and majority rules for Extraordinary 
Shareholders’ Meetings, having read the Board of Directors’ report 
and the Statutory auditors’ special report:
1  authorizes the Board of Directors, with the power of 
sub-delegation to the extent authorized by law – subject 
to the attainment of the performance targets defined and 
implemented in accordance with this resolution and for a 
total number of shares not exceeding 1.2% of the share 
capital at the date of the decision (this maximum number 
of shares being referred to hereafter by the letter “N”) – to 
grant shares of the Company (existing or to be issued), to 
employees of the Company and employees and corporate 
officers of its French and non-French subsidiaries related to 
the Company within the meaning of Article 225 -197-2 of the 
French Commercial Code (the “Group”), it being stipulated 
that this maximum number of shares, existing or to be 
issued, does not take into account the number of additional 
shares that may be granted due to an adjustment to the 
number of shares initially granted following a transaction in 
the Company’s share capital; 
2  resolves that for up to a maximum of 10% of “N”, these 
performance shares may also be granted, in accordance with 
applicable laws, to the Executive Corporate Officers of the 
Company, it being stipulated that in this case, the Board of 
Directors will, in accordance with applicable laws, decide the 
portion of shares that must be held by each individual until 
the end of their term of office; 
3  resolves that these performance shares will only vest at the 
end of a vesting period (the “Vesting Period”) of at least 
three years, it being stipulated that the Board of Directors 
may introduce, where applicable, a lock -in period following 
the vesting of the shares the duration of which may vary 
depending on the country of tax residence of the beneficiary; 
in those countries where a lock -in period is applied it will be 
of a minimum period of one year.
However, the shares will vest before the expiry of the above 
periods and may be freely sold in the event of the death or 
incapacity of the beneficiary, corresponding to a Category 2 
or 3 disability in France, as defined in Article L. 341 -4 of the 
French Social Security Code;4  resolves, subject to the powers conferred on the Board of 
Directors by law and this resolution, that the exact number 
of shares vesting to all beneficiaries at the end of the Vesting 
Period, compared with the total number of shares (“Initial 
Grant”) indicated in the grant notice sent to beneficiaries will 
be equal to:
i  for 40%, the number of shares of the Initial Grant 
multiplied by the percentage attainment of the chosen 
external performance target, it being stipulated that:
 –  the performance target to be met in order for 
the shares to vest will be the performance of 
the Capgemini share measured over a minimum 
three -year period compared to the average 
performance, measured over the same period, of 
a basket containing at least five shares of listed 
companies operating in the same sector as the Group 
in a minimum of five countries in which the Group is 
firmly established (France, the United States, etc.),
 –  this relative performance will be measured by 
comparing the stock market performance of the 
Capgemini share with the average share price 
performance of the basket over the same period 
according to objectives set by the Board of Directors 
(it being stipulated that no shares will vest in respect 
of shares subject to this external performance 
target, if, over the calculation reference period, the 
performance of the Capgemini share is less than 
100% of the average performance of the basket 
measured over the same period); 
ii  for 40%, the number of shares of the Initial Grant 
multiplied by the percentage attainment of the chosen 
internal financial performance target based on organic 
free cash flow, it being stipulated that:
 –  the performance target to be met in order for 
the shares to vest will be the amount of audited 
and published organic free cash flow for the 
three -year cumulative period from January  1, 2024 
to December  31, 2026, excluding Group payments 
to its defined benefit pension funds or its other 
post -employment defined benefit plans, it being 
understood that organic free cash flow is defined as 
cash flow from operations less acquisitions (net of 
disposals) of intangible assets and property, plant 
and equipment, adjusted for flows relating to the 
net interest cost (as presented in the consolidated 
statement of cash flow),

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE C OMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 16, 2024
resolutions presented at the e xtraordinary shareholders’ Meeting
411
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI7 –  this relative performance will be measured according 
to objectives set by the Board of Directors;
iii  for 20%, the number of shares of the Initial Grant 
multiplied by the percentage attainment of the chosen 
Corporate Social and Environmental performance target 
based on Group objectives, it being stipulated that the 
performance target to be met in order for the shares to 
vest will be measured according to objectives set by the 
Board of Directors; 
5  resolves that by exception, and for an amount not exceeding 
15% of “N”, shares may be granted to employees of the 
Company and its French subsidiaries (within the meaning, 
particularly, of Article L. 22 -10-60, paragraph 1, of the French 
Commercial Code) and non-French subsidiaries, excluding 
members of the Group Management team (the Group 
Executive Committee) without performance conditions; 
6  takes due note that this authorization involves the waiver 
by shareholders of their pre -emptive subscription rights 
in favor of beneficiaries of performance shares if the grant 
concerns shares to be issued; 
7  takes due note that, pursuant to the law, the Board of 
Directors has the power, by way of a duly reasoned decision 
made after this decision, to amend the performance 
conditions set out in paragraph 4 above and/or the weighting 
of said performance conditions when deemed appropriate; 
8  gives powers to the Board of Directors to implement this 
authorization (with the power of sub -delegation to the 
extent authorized by law), and in particular to:
 —  set the share allocation date,
 —  draw up one or more list(s) of beneficiaries and the 
number of shares allocated to each beneficiary,
 —  set the share allocation terms and conditions, including 
with respect to performance conditions, —  determine whether the shares allocated for nil 
consideration are existing shares or shares to be issued 
and, where applicable, amend this choice before the 
vesting of shares,
 —  decide, in the event that transactions are carried out 
before the shares vest that affect the Company’s equity, 
whether to adjust the number of the shares granted in 
order to preserve the rights of the beneficiaries and, if so, 
to define the terms and conditions of such adjustment; 
it is stipulated that shares granted pursuant to these 
adjustments shall be considered granted on the same 
day as the shares initially granted,
 —  perform, where the allocations concern shares to 
be issued, the necessary share capital increases by 
capitalization of reserves and/or additional paid -in 
capital of the Company when the shares ultimately vest, 
set the dates from which shares bear dividend rights, 
deduct from reserves and/or additional paid -in capital 
of the Company the amounts necessary to increase the 
legal reserve to 10% of the new share capital amount 
following these share capital increases and amend the 
bylaws accordingly,
 —  carry out all formalities and, more generally, to do 
whatever is necessary; 
9  takes due note that, in the event the Board of Directors 
uses this authorization, it will inform the Shareholders’ 
Meeting each year of the grants performed pursuant to this 
resolution, in accordance with Article L.  225 -197-4  of the 
French Commercial Code; 
10  resolves that this authorization is granted for a period of 
eighteen months as from the date of this Shareholders’ 
Meeting and supersedes from this date, in the amount 
of any unused portion, the authorization granted by the 
14th  resolution adopted by the Shareholders’ Meeting of 
May 16, 2023.
PRESENTATION OF THE 26TH AND 27TH RESOLUTIONS
EMPLOYEE SAVINGS PLANS
Overview
As part of the employee incentive policy and in order to align 
employee interests with those of shareholders and also stabilize the 
Company’s share capital, the Board of Directors wishes to continue 
making the Company’s share capital accessible to a large number of 
employees, in particular through employee share ownership plans 
(“ESOP”). Since 2017, such employee share ownership operations 
are now offered to Group employees on an annual basis, while 
ultimately aiming to increase employee share ownership to between 
8% and 10% of the Company’s share capital.
use of the authorizations granted in 2023
During fiscal year 2023, the Board of Directors used the 15th and 
16th resolutions adopted by the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 16, 
2023, by launching a tenth employee share ownership plan aimed 
at associating employees with the Group’s development and 
performance. This plan was a great success, with subscriptions totaling 
€467 million from over 50,000 employees from 32 participating 
countries. This new employee share ownership plan (ESOP 2023) 
will help maintain employee share ownership at around 8% of 
the share capital.
3,200,000 new shares were subscribed at a unit price of €145.81. 
The corresponding share capital increase of a par value amount of 
€25,600,000 was completed on December 19, 2023.new authorization requested in 2024
Shareholders are asked to renew the two authorizations by which 
the Shareholders’ Meeting would delegate to the Board its power 
to increase the share capital or issue complex securities granting 
access to equity securities in favor of the Company’s employees. 
This would allow the set -up of a new employee share ownership 
plan in the next eighteen months.
An overall ceiling of €28 million (corresponding to 3.5 million 
shares and representing approximately 2.0% of the share capital 
at December 31, 2023) is proposed for these two authorizations.
The 26th resolution  is intended to allow the Board to carry out 
share capital increases up to a maximum par value amount of 
€28 million reserved for members of employee savings plans of the 
Company or the Group. This resolution requires the cancelation of 
pre-emptive subscription rights. The delegation would be granted 
for a period of eighteen months. The maximum discount authorized 
compared to the Reference Price (as defined in the resolution) 
would be 20%, it being stipulated that the Board of Directors would 
be authorized, if it deems it appropriate, to reduce or remove the 
20% discount, subject to prevailing legal and regulatory limits, 
notably to take account of market practices or applicable legal or 
tax regimes in the countries of residence of the beneficiaries of 
the share capital increase.

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE C OMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 16, 2024
resolutions presented at the e xtraordinary shareholders’ Meeting
412
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT7The 27th resolution  aims to develop employee share ownership 
outside France, given the legal or fiscal difficulties or uncertainties 
that could make it difficult to implement such a plan directly or 
indirectly through employee savings mutual funds in certain countries. 
It shall be used only in the event of use of the delegation provided 
in the 26th resolution, with a sub -ceiling of €14 million included in 
the overall ceiling of €28 million provided in the 26th resolution. As 
for the 26th resolution, this resolution provides for the cancellation of pre -emptive subscription rights and would be granted for a 
period of eighteen months. The maximum discount authorized is 
the same as in the 26th resolution.
At December 31, 2023, employee share ownership represented 
8.9% of the Company’s share capital.
The next employee share ownership plan could be launched before 
December 31, 2024.
TWENTY ‑SIXTH RESOLUTION
Delegation of authority to the Board of Directors, for a period of eighteen months, to issue, with cancelation 
of pre‑emptive subscription rights, ordinary shares and/or securities granting access to the Company’s 
share capital to members of Capgemini Group employee savings plans up to a maximum par value amount of 
€28 million and at a price set in accordance with the provisions of the French Labor Code
The Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum and 
majority rules for Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, having 
read the Board of Directors’ report and the Statutory auditors’ 
special report and in accordance with Articles L. 225 -129 -2, 
L. 22 -10-49, L. 225 -129-6, L. 225 -138-1 and L. 228 -91 et seq.  of the 
French Commercial Code and Articles L. 3332 -18 to L. 3332 -24 of 
the French Labor Code:
1  delegates to the Board of Directors, with the power of 
sub-delegation to the extent authorized by law, the authority 
to decide a share capital increase with cancelation of 
pre-emptive subscription rights, on one or more occasions, 
in France or abroad, in the proportions and at the times it 
sees fit, in euros or in any other currency or currency unit 
established by reference to more than one currency, with or 
without a share premium, whether for valuable consideration 
or without consideration, by issuing (i) shares of the Company 
(excluding preference shares), and/or (ii) securities governed 
by Articles L. 228 -92 paragraph 1, L. 228 -93 paragraphs 1 and 
3 or L. 228 -94 paragraph 2 of the French Commercial Code 
granting access, immediately or in the future, at any time 
or at fixed dates, by subscription, conversion, exchange, 
redemption, presentation of a warrant or any other means, 
to the share capital of the Company, reserved for members 
of one or more employee savings plans (or any other plan for 
whose members a share capital increase may be reserved 
on equivalent terms under Articles L.  3332 -1 et seq.  of the 
French Labor Code or any analogous law or regulation) 
implemented within a company or a group of French or non-
French companies within the scope of the consolidated or 
combined financial statements of the Company pursuant to 
Article L. 3344 -1 of the French Labor Code, it being further 
stipulated that this resolution may be used to implement 
leveraged schemes; 
2  resolves to set the following limits on authorized share 
capital increases in the event of use by the Board of Directors 
of this delegation:
 —  the maximum par value amount of share capital increases 
that may be carried out under this delegation is set at 
€28  million or the equivalent in any other currency or 
currency unit established by reference to more than one 
currency,
 —  added to this ceiling will be the par value amount of 
any shares to be issued to preserve, in accordance with 
legal and regulatory provisions and, where applicable, 
any contractual terms stipulating other cases where 
adjustment is necessary, the rights of holders of 
securities or other rights granting access to the share 
capital, —  in the case of a share capital increase by capitalizing 
additional paid -in capital, reserves, profits or any other 
amounts and granting free shares during the period 
of validity of this delegation, the above ceiling will be 
adjusted based on the ratio between the number of 
shares issued and outstanding before and after the 
transaction; 
3  resolves that the issue price of the new shares or securities 
granting access to the share capital will be determined in 
accordance with the terms set out in Articles L. 3332 -18 et seq.  
of the French Labor Code and will be at least equal to 80% of 
the Reference Price (as defined below), it being stipulated 
that the Shareholders’ Meeting expressly authorizes the 
Board of Directors, or its delegate, if it deems it appropriate, 
to reduce or remove the aforementioned discount, subject 
to prevailing legal and regulatory limits, notably to take 
account of market practices or applicable legal or tax 
regimes in the countries of residence of the beneficiaries of 
the share capital increase; for the purposes of this paragraph 
the Reference Price refers to an average listed price of the 
Company’s share on the Euronext Paris regulated market 
over the 20 trading days preceding the decision setting the 
subscription opening date for members of a company or 
group employee savings plan (or similar plan); 
4  authorizes the Board of Directors to grant, without 
consideration, to the beneficiaries indicated above, in 
addition to shares or securities granting access to the 
share capital, shares or securities granting access to the 
share capital to be issued or already issued in full or partial 
substitution of the discount in the Reference Price and/
or as an employer’s contribution, it being stipulated that 
the benefit resulting from this grant may not exceed the 
applicable legal or regulatory limits; 
5  resolves to waive in favor of the aforementioned beneficiaries 
the pre -emptive subscription rights of shareholders to the 
shares and securities issued pursuant to this delegation, said 
shareholders also waiving, in the event of the free grant to 
such beneficiaries of shares or securities granting access 
to the share capital, any rights to such shares or securities 
granting access to the share capital, including the portion 
of reserves, profits, or additional paid -in capital capitalized 
as a result of the free grant of securities on the basis of this 
resolution;

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE C OMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 16, 2024
resolutions presented at the e xtraordinary shareholders’ Meeting
413
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI76  authorizes the Board of Directors, under the terms specified 
in this delegation, to sell shares as permitted under Article 
L.  3332 -24  of the French Labor Code to members of a 
company or group employee savings plan (or similar plan), 
it being stipulated that the aggregate par value amount 
of shares sold at a discount to members of one or more of 
the employee savings plans covered by this resolution will 
count towards the ceilings mentioned in paragraph 2 of this 
resolution;
7  resolves that the Board of Directors, with the power of 
sub-delegation to the extent authorized by law, shall have 
full powers to implement this delegation, and in particular:
 —  decide the issue of shares and/or securities granting 
access, immediately or in the future, to the share capital 
of the Company or other companies,
 —  draw up in accordance with the law the scope of 
companies from which the beneficiaries indicated above 
may subscribe for shares or securities granting access to 
the share capital thus issued and who, where applicable, 
may receive free grants of shares or securities granting 
access to the share capital,
 —  decide that subscriptions may be made directly by 
beneficiaries belonging to a company or group savings 
plan (or similar plan), or via dedicated employee savings 
mutual funds (FCPE) or other vehicles or entities 
permitted under applicable laws and regulations,
 —  for issues of debt instruments, set all the terms and 
conditions of these securities (particularly their term, 
which may or may not be fixed, whether they are 
subordinated and their remuneration) and amend, 
during the life of these securities, the above terms and 
conditions, in compliance with applicable formalities,
 —  set the terms, where applicable, for the exercise of rights 
(rights to conversion, exchange or redemption, including 
the delivery of Company assets such as treasury shares 
or securities already issued by the Company, as the case 
may be) attached to shares or securities granting access 
to the share capital, and in particular set the date, which 
may be retroactive, from which the new shares will rank 
for dividend, and all other terms and conditions for the 
completion of the share capital increase,
 —  provide for the possibility of suspending the exercise 
of the rights attached to shares or securities granting 
access to the share capital in accordance with legal and 
regulatory provisions,
 —  set the amounts of issues to be made under this 
delegation and in particular determine the issue prices, 
dates, time limits, terms and conditions of subscription, 
payment, delivery and date of ranking for dividend of the 
securities (which may be retroactive), rules for pro -rating in the event of over -subscription and any other terms and 
conditions of the issues, subject to prevailing legal and 
regulatory limits,
 —  determine and make all adjustments to take account of 
the impact of transactions in the share capital or equity 
of the Company, in particular in the event of a change 
in the par value of the share, a share capital increase by 
capitalizing reserves, profits or additional paid -in capital, 
a free share grant, a stock split or reverse stock split, a 
distribution of dividends, reserves, additional paid -in 
capital or any other assets, a share capital redemption, or 
any other transaction impacting share capital or equity 
(including in the case of a public offer for the Company’s 
shares and/or a change in control) and set all other terms 
enabling the preservation, where applicable, of the rights 
of holders of securities or other rights granting access to 
the share capital (including by means of cash adjustments),
 —  in the event of the free grant of shares or securities 
granting access to the share capital, determine the 
nature and number of shares or securities granting 
access to the share capital, as well as their terms and 
conditions and the number to be granted to each 
beneficiary, and determine the dates, time limits, and 
terms and conditions of grant of such shares or securities 
granting access to the share capital subject to prevailing 
legal and regulatory limits, and in particular choose to 
either wholly or partially substitute the grant of such 
shares or securities granting access to the share capital 
for the discount in the Reference Price specified above 
or offset the equivalent value of such shares or securities 
against the total amount of the employer’s contribution 
or a combination of both options,
 —  duly record the completion of share capital increases and 
make the corresponding amendments to the bylaws,
 —  offset or not share issue costs against the related 
premiums and deduct from such premiums the sums 
necessary to increase the legal reserve,
 —  generally, enter into all agreements, in particular to 
ensure completion of the proposed issues, take all 
measures and decisions and accomplish all formalities for 
the issue, listing and financial administration of securities 
issued by virtue of this delegation and for the exercise of 
the rights attached thereto or required as a result of the 
share capital increases; 
8  grants this delegation for a period of eighteen months as 
from the date of this Shareholders’ Meeting; 
9  resolves that this delegation supersedes from this date, in 
the amount of any unused portion, the delegation granted 
by the 15th resolution adopted by the Shareholders’ Meeting 
of May 16, 2023.
TWENTY ‑SEVENTH RESOLUTION
Delegation of authority to the Board of Directors, for a period of eighteen months, to issue with cancelation 
of pre‑emptive subscription rights, ordinary shares and/or securities granting access to the share capital in 
favor of employees of certain non ‑French subsidiaries at terms and conditions comparable to those offered 
pursuant to the preceding resolution
The Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum and 
majority rules for Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, having read 
the Board of Directors’ report and the Statutory auditors’ special 
report and in accordance with Articles L. 225 -129-2, L. 22 -10-49, 
L. 225 -138 and L. 228 -91 et seq.  of the French Commercial Code:
1  takes due note that in certain countries, the legal and/or 
tax context can make it inadvisable or difficult to implement 
employee share ownership schemes directly or through an 
Employee Savings Mutual Fund (employees and corporate 
officers referred to in Articles L. 3332 -1 and L. 3332 -2 of the French Labor Code of Capgemini Group companies whose 
registered offices are located in one of these countries 
are referred to below as “ non-French Employees ”; the 
“Capgemini Group ” comprises the Company and the French 
and non-French companies related to the Company within 
the meaning of Article L. 225 -180 of the French Commercial 
Code and Articles L.  3344 -1 et seq.  of the French Labor 
Code) and that the implementation in favor of certain 
non-French Employees of alternative schemes to those 
performed pursuant to the 26th resolution submitted to this 
Shareholders’ Meeting may be desirable;

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE C OMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 16, 2024
resolutions presented at the e xtraordinary shareholders’ Meeting
414
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT72  delegates to the Board of Directors, with the power of 
sub-delegation to the extent authorized by law, its authority 
to decide a share capital increase with cancelation of 
pre-emptive subscription rights, on one or more occasions, 
in France or abroad, in the proportions and at the times 
it sees fit, in euros or in any other currency or currency 
unit established by reference to more than one currency, 
with or without a share premium, whether for valuable 
consideration or without consideration, by issuing (i) shares 
of the Company (excluding preference shares), and/or 
(ii)  securities governed by Articles L.  228 -92  paragraph  1, 
L. 228 -93 paragraphs 1 and 3 or L. 228 -94 paragraph 2 of the 
French Commercial Code granting access, immediately or 
in the future, at any time or at fixed dates, by subscription, 
conversion, exchange, redemption, presentation of a 
warrant or any other means, to the share capital of the 
Company, reserved for one of the following categories of 
beneficiary: (i)  non-French Employees, (ii)  employee share 
ownership UCITS or other vehicles, with or without a legal 
personality, invested in shares of the Company, where the 
holders of units or shares are non-French Employees, and/
or (iii)  any bank or entity controlled by a bank within the 
meaning of Article L. 233 -3 of the French Commercial Code 
that has set -up at the Company’s request a structured offer 
for non-French employees presenting an economic profile 
comparable to that of an employee share ownership scheme 
set-up pursuant to a share capital increase performed under 
the preceding resolution presented to this Shareholders’ 
Meeting; 
3  resolves to set the following limits on authorized share 
capital increases in the event of use by the Board of Directors 
of this delegation:
 —  the maximum par value amount of share capital increases 
that may be carried out under this delegation is set at 
€14  million or the equivalent in any other currency or 
currency unit established by reference to more than 
one currency, it being stipulated that this amount will 
count towards the ceiling set in paragraph  2  of the 
26th resolution of this Shareholders’ Meeting (subject to 
its approval) or, as the case may be, towards any ceiling 
stipulated by a similar resolution that may supersede said 
resolution during the period of validity of this delegation,
 —  added to these ceiling will be the par value amount of 
any shares to be issued to preserve, in accordance with 
legal and regulatory provisions and, where applicable, 
any contractual terms stipulating other cases where adjustment is necessary, the rights of holders of 
securities or other rights granting access to the share 
capital,
 —  in the case of a share capital increase by capitalizing 
additional paid -in capital, reserves, profits or any other 
amounts and granting free shares during the period 
of validity of this delegation, the above ceilings will be 
adjusted based on the ratio between the number of 
shares issued and outstanding before and after the 
transaction; 
4  resolves to cancel pre -emptive subscription rights to the 
shares and securities that may be issued pursuant to this 
delegation, in favor of the aforementioned beneficiary 
categories; 
5  resolves that this delegation of authority may only be used 
in the event of the use of the delegation granted pursuant 
to the 26th  resolution and solely in order to achieve the 
objective set out in this resolution; 
6  resolves that the issue price of new shares or securities 
granting access to the share capital to be issued pursuant 
to this delegation will be set by the Board of Directors 
based on the listed price of the Company’s share on the 
Euronext Paris regulated market; this price will be at least 
equal to the average listed price of the Company’s share 
over the 20  trading days preceding the decision setting 
the subscription opening date for a share capital increase 
performed pursuant to the 26th  resolution, less the same 
discount; 
7  resolves that the Board of Directors shall have the same 
powers, with the power of sub -delegation to the extent 
authorized by law, as those conferred on the Board of 
Directors by paragraph  7  of 26th  resolution and the power 
to draw up the list of beneficiaries of the cancelation of 
pre-emptive subscription rights within the above defined 
category, and the number of shares and securities granting 
access to the share capital to be subscribed by each 
beneficiary; 
8  grants this delegation for a period of eighteen months as 
from the date of this Shareholders’ Meeting; 
9  resolves that this delegation supersedes from this date, in 
the amount of any unused portion, the delegation granted 
by the 16th resolution adopted by the Shareholders’ Meeting 
of May 16, 2023.
PRESENTATION OF THE 28TH RESOLUTION
POWERS TO CARRY OUT FORMALITIES
Overview
We also recommend that you confer powers to carry out the formalities required under law.
TWENTY ‑EIGHTH RESOLUTION
Powers to carry out formalities
The Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum 
and majority rules for Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, confers 
full powers on the bearer of a copy or extract of the minutes of this meeting to execute all filing, publication and other formalities 
required under French law.

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE C OMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 16, 2024
resolutions presented at the e xtraordinary shareholders’ Meeting
415
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI7Table of financial resolutions presented to the Shareholders’ Meeting
The following table summarizes the purpose and duration of the financial resolutions presented above and the ceilings on their use, 
submitted to the Shareholders’ Meeting for approval.
resolution 
number Purpose of the resolutionduration and  
expiry dateCeiling  (1) (2) 
(in euros and/or percentage of 
share capital)
2024 G sM 
16th  a)  Purchase by the Company of its own shares under a share 
buyback program18 months 
(November 16, 
2025)10% of the share capital
2024 G sM 
17th  b)  Cancelation of treasury shares 26 months  
(July 16, 2026)10% of share capital per 
24-month period
2024 G sM 
18th  c)  Share capital increase by capitalizing additional paid -in 
capital, reserves, profits or any other amounts26 months  
(July 16, 2026)€1.5 billion (par value)
2024 G sM 
19th  d) Share capital increase by issuing shares and/or securities 
granting access to the share capital with retention of P sr 26 months  
(July 16, 2026)€540 million (par value)
€5,900 million (issue 
amount) for debt 
instruments
2024 G sM 
20th  e)  Share capital increase, with cancelation of P sr, by issuing 
shares and/or securities granting access to the share capital, 
by way of public offers other than those referred to  
in Article L. 411-2 1° of the French Monetary and  
Financial Code26 months  
(July 16, 2026)€135 million (par value) (1) 
€5,900 million (issue 
amount) for debt 
instruments  (1) 
2024 G sM 
21st  f)  Share capital increase, with cancelation of P sr, by issuing 
shares and/or securities granting access to the share capital, 
by way of public offers referred to in Article L. 411 ‑2 1° of 
the French Monetary and Financial Code26 months  
(July 16, 2026)€135 million (par value) (1) 
€5,900 million (issue 
amount) for debt 
instruments  (1) 
2024 G sM 
22nd  g)  Setting the issue price of shares and/or securities granting 
access to the share capital in the context of a share capital 
increase with cancelation of PSR26 months  
(July 16, 2026)Ceilings set in the 20th  
and 21st  resolutions  (1)
10% of the share capital
2024 G sM 
23rd  h)  Increase in the number of shares to be issued in case of a 
share capital increase in the context of resolutions (d) to (f) 
(Greenshoe) with and without PSR26 months  
(July 16, 2026)Depending on the initial 
resolution used  (1)
Maximum of 15% of the 
initial issue
2024 G sM 
24th  i)  Share capital increase by issuing shares and/or securities 
granting access to the share capital in consideration for 
contributions in kind26 months  
(July 16, 2026)€135 million (par value) (1) 
€5,900 million (issue 
amount) for debt 
instruments  (1)
10% of the share capital
2024 G sM 
25th  j)  Grant of performance shares 18 months 
(November 16, 
2025)1.2% of share capital
2024 G sM 
26th  k)  Share capital increase by issuing shares and/or securities 
granting access to the share capital with cancelation of P sr, 
reserved for members of Group employee savings plans18 months 
(November 16, 
2025)€28 million (par value) (2) 
2024 G sM 
27th  l)  Share capital increase by issuing shares and/or securities 
granting access to the share capital with cancelation of P sr, 
reserved for employees of certain non-French subsidiaries18 months 
(November 16, 
2025)€14 million (par value) (2) 
Abbreviations: PSR = Pre -emptive Subscription Rights, 2024 GSM = 2024 General Shareholders’ Meeting.
(1) Recap of overall limits:
  — an overall ceiling of a par value amount of €540 million for share capital increases and of €5,900 million for all debt instrument for all issues with and without PSR; 
  — a sub -ceiling of a par value amount of €135 million for all issues without PSR .
(2) Total share capital increases decided pursuant to k) and l) are subject to a maximum par value amount of €28 million (amount independent of the general ceiling set out 
above).

416
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT7REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE C OMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 16, 2024
 supplementary report of the Board of directors on the issuance of shares under the Capgemini Group “esoP 2023” employee shareholding plan and 
statutory auditors’ report
73  Supplementary report of the Board of Directors on 
the issuance of shares under the Capgemini Group 
“ESOP 2023” employee shareholding plan and 
Statutory auditors’ report
This supplementary report is prepared in accordance with Articles 
L. 225 -129-5 and R. 255 -116 of the French Commercial Code ( Code 
de commerce ).
In its fifteenth and sixteenth resolutions, the Combined Shareholders’ 
Meeting of Capgemini SE (“the Company”) of May 16, 2023, voting 
in accordance with quorum and majority rules for extraordinary 
general meetings, delegated the Board of Directors, for a period 
of eighteen months, with power of sub -delegation under the 
conditions provided for by law, the authority to decide the 
increase in the share capital of the Company, with cancellation of 
pre-emptive subscription rights, through the issuance of (i) shares 
of the Company (excluding preference shares), and/or (ii) securities 
governed by Articles L. 228 -92 paragraph 1, L. 228 -93 paragraphs 
1 and 3 or L. 228 -94 paragraph 2 of the French Commercial Code 
granting access, immediately or in the future, at any time or at 
fixed dates, by subscription, conversion, exchange, redemption, 
presentation of a warrant or any other means, to the share capital 
of the Company, within the limits of 28 million euros under the 
fifteenth resolution and 14 million euros under the sixteenth 
resolution, it being stipulated that this amount will count towards 
the ceiling set in paragraph 2 of the sixteenth resolution.
This capital increase would be reserved (a) under the fifteenth 
resolution, for members of one or more employee savings plans 
(or any other plan for whose members a share capital increase 
may be reserved on equivalent terms under Articles L. 3332 -1 et 
seq. of the French Labor Code or any analogous law or regulation) 
implemented within a company or a group of French or non-French 
companies within the scope of the consolidated or combined financial 
statements of the Company pursuant to Article L. 3344 -1 of the 
French Labor Code, it being further stipulated that this resolution 
may be used to implement leveraged schemes and (b) under the 
sixteenth resolution, for one of the following categories of beneficiary: 
(i) non-French Employees, (ii) employee share ownership UCITS 
or other vehicles, with or without a legal personality, invested in 
shares of the Company, where the holders of units or shares are 
non-French Employees, and/or (iii) any bank or entity controlled by a bank within the meaning of Article L. 233 -3 of the French 
Commercial Code that has set -up at the Company’s request a 
structured offer for non-French employees presenting an economic 
profile comparable to that of an employee share ownership scheme 
set-up pursuant to a share capital increase performed under the 
fifteenth resolution.
Under the fifteenth resolution, the issue price of the new shares or 
securities granting access to the share capital will be determined 
in accordance with the terms set out in Articles L. 3332 -18 et seq. 
of the French Labor Code and will be at least equal to 80% of the 
Reference Price, with this term referring to an average listed price 
of the Company’s share on the Euronext Paris regulated market over 
the 20 trading days preceding the decision setting the subscription 
opening date for members of a company or group employee savings 
plan (or similar plan). Moreover, under the sixteenth resolution, 
the issue price of new shares or securities granting access to the 
share capital to be issued pursuant to this delegation will be set by 
the Board of Directors based on the listed price of the Company’s 
share on the Euronext Paris regulated market; this price will be at 
least equal to the average listed price of the Company’s share over 
the 20 trading days preceding the decision setting the subscription 
opening date for a share capital increase performed pursuant to 
the fifteenth resolution, less the same discount.
At its meeting of June 14 -15, 2023, the Board of Directors of the 
Company, using its delegation of authority, decided on the principle 
of an increase of the share capital of the Company by issuing shares 
to beneficiaries as defined by the aforementioned fifteenth and 
sixteenth resolutions, approved the main features of such issuances 
and delegated to the Chief Executive Officer the powers required 
for their implementation, notably to set the subscription dates 
and subscription price of the shares to be issued.
On November 10, 2023, the Chief Executive Officer, acting pursuant 
to this delegation of powers by the Board of Directors, fixed the 
subscription dates and subscription price of the shares to be issued 
on the basis of the above aforementioned decisions.
1  Summary of the decisions of the governing bodies of the Company and main characteristics of the 
transaction
decision of the Board of d irectors
The Board of Directors, at its meeting of June 14 -15, 2023, decided:
1  —  in accordance with the fifteenth resolution adopted 
by the General Shareholders’ Meeting dated May  16, 
2023, on the principle of an increase of the Company’s 
share capital reserved for eligible employees and 
corporate officers of the Company and the French and 
foreign subsidiaries of the Company, whether directly 
or indirectly held, that are members of a Capgemini 
Group French company savings plan governed by Articles 
L.  3332 -1 et seq . of the French Labor Code, within the 
limit of a maximum number of 3,200,000 (three million 
and two hundred thousand) shares; 
 —  that the shares issued pursuant to this decision will bear 
benefit entitlement as of January 1, 2023; 
 —  that the subscription of the Capgemini shares can be 
carried out directly or via a French Employee Savings 
Shareholding Fund (FCPE);  —  that employees’ subscription can be carried out through 
a leveraged subscription formula via a FCPE or within the 
framework of an equivalent subscription mechanism in 
order to account for the regulatory and fiscal legislation 
applicable in beneficiaries’ various countries of residence; 
 —  in accordance with article L.  225 -138-1  of the French 
Commercial Code, that the capital increase completed 
on the basis of this decision can only be carried out up 
to the limit of the number of shares subscribed by the 
beneficiaries.
Within these limits and those set forth by the fifteenth resolution 
adopted by the General Shareholders’ Meeting dated May 16, 
2023, the Board of Directors decided to delegate the necessary 
powers to the Chief Executive Officer for the purposes of 
completing the capital increase as well as that of postponing 
its completion. To this end, the Chief Executive Officer has 
been granted all powers to set the terms and conditions of 
the transaction and, in particular:

417
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI7REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE C OMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 16, 2024
 supplementary report of the Board of directors on the issuance of shares under the Capgemini Group “esoP 2023” employee shareholding plan and 
statutory auditors’ report
 —  to set the opening and closing date of the subscription 
period, it being understood that the subscription 
period could be preceded by a reservation period for 
subscriptions; 
 —  to set the maximum number of shares to be issued within 
the limit of 3,200,000 (three million and two hundred 
thousand) shares; 
 —  to set the subscription price of the shares which, in 
accordance with the provisions of the French Labor 
Code, will be equal to the average of the volume 
weighted average price (VWAP) of the listed prices of the 
Capgemini share during the 20 stock market trading days 
preceding the Chief Executive Officer’s decision that will 
set the dates of the subscription period, minus a 12.5% 
discount; 
 —  to set the terms and conditions for reducing 
subscriptions requested by beneficiaries of the reserved 
capital increase in the event that the total number of 
shares requested by these beneficiaries is higher than 
the maximum authorized amount, in accordance with 
the rules described in the documents approved by the 
Autorité des Marchés Financiers  (AMF – French financial 
market authority); 
 —  to set the timeframe and the terms and conditions for 
payment of the new shares; 
 —  to acknowledge the completion of the capital increase 
up to the limit of the shares effectively subscribed, to 
adopt the report to the shareholders and to modify the 
bylaws in accordance with the transaction; 
 —  to execute the issuance of the shares thus subscribed 
and take useful steps to ensure their listing and financial 
administration services; 
 —  if applicable, to deduct the costs of the capital increase 
from the amount of the bonuses associated therewith 
and withdraw the necessary sums from this amount to 
increase the legal reserve to one tenth of the new share 
capital; 
 —  more generally, to carry out all transactions and execute 
all formalities that render themselves necessary for the 
completion of the capital increase.
2 —   in accordance with the sixteenth resolution adopted by 
the General Shareholders’ Meeting dated May 16, 2023, 
on the principle of an increase of the Company’s capital 
reserved for a banking institution acting at the Company’s 
request for the implementation of a subscription formula 
proposed to employees and corporate officers of the 
companies related to the Company under the conditions 
set forth by Articles L. 225 -180 of the French Commercial 
Code and L.  3344 -1  of the French Labor Code and the 
corporate headquarters of which are located outside of 
France, providing an economic profile that is comparable 
to the subscription formula offered to employees of the 
Group within the framework of the transaction carried 
out pursuant to paragraph 1. above; 
 —  decided that the shares issued pursuant to this decision 
will bear benefit entitlement as of January 1, 2023; 
 —  decided that the total number of shares issued pursuant 
to paragraphs 1. and 2. above cannot exceed 3,200,000 
(three million and two hundred thousand) shares. A 
sub-limit of 1,600,000 (one million and six hundred 
thousand) shares is set for the capital increase decided 
under the sixteenth resolution; 
Within these limits and those set forth by the sixteenth resolution 
adopted by the General Shareholders’ Meeting dated May 16, 
2023, the Board of Directors decided to delegate the necessary 
powers to the Chief Executive Officer for the purposes of completing the capital increase as well as that of postponing 
its completion. To this end, the Chief Executive Officer has 
been granted all powers to set the terms and conditions of 
the transaction, and, in particular:
 —  to set the subscription date and subscription price of 
the shares, which, in accordance with the provisions of 
the French Labor Code, will be equal to the average of 
the volume weighted average price (VWAP) of the listed 
prices of the Capgemini share during the 20 stock market 
trading days preceding the date of the Chief Executive 
Officer’s decision that will set the opening date of the 
subscription to the capital increase carried out pursuant 
to paragraph 1. above, minus a 12.5% discount; 
 —  to set the number of shares to be issued to the banking 
institution or entity controlled by a banking institution to 
be named; 
 —  to acknowledge the completion of the capital increase, 
to adopt the report to the shareholders and to modify 
the bylaws in accordance with the transaction; 
 —  to execute the issuance of the shares thus subscribed 
and take useful steps to ensure their listing and financial 
administration services; 
 —  if applicable, to deduct the costs of the capital increase 
from the amount of the bonuses associated therewith 
and withdraw the necessary sums from this amount to 
increase the legal reserve to one tenth of the new share 
capital; 
 —  more generally, to carry out all transactions and execute 
all formalities that render themselves necessary for the 
completion of the capital increase.
Decision of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company
On November 10, 2023, the Chief Executive Officer, acting pursuant 
to the delegation of authority by the Board of Directors:
(i)  set the dates of the subscription period for the shares to be 
issued in accordance with, respectively, the fifteenth and 
sixteenth resolutions adopted by the General Shareholders’ 
Meeting of the Company of May 16, 2023 as follow:
 —  the subscription period of Capgemini shares for Group 
employees enrolled in a company savings plan would 
be open from November  13  to 15, 2023, provided that 
employees who made a subscription request during 
the reservation period could revoke such subscription 
request during the subscription period whose dates are 
thus fixed; 
 —  the subscription of Capgemini shares by Spade 
International Employees, a simplified joint stock company 
(société par actions simplifiée ), headquartered at 12, Place 
des Etats-Unis – CS 70052 – 92547  Montrouge Cedex, 
and registered with the Trade and Companies Register 
of Nanterre under number 834 217 259, would be carried 
out on December  19, 2023, it being understood that 
issuance of shares to Spade International Employees will 
be carried out on the basis of the sixteenth resolution of 
the General Shareholders’ Meeting dated May 16, 2023 
which authorizes the capital increase of the Company in 
favor of a banking institution acting at the Company’s 
request for the implementation of a subscription formula 
proposed to employees and corporate officers of the 
companies related to the Company under the conditions 
set forth by Articles L. 225 -180 of the French Commercial 
Code and L.  3344 -1  of the French Labor Code and the 
corporate headquarters of which are located outside of 
France, providing an economic profile comparable to the 
subscription formula offered to Group employees within 
the framework of the transaction carried out pursuant to 
the aforementioned fifteenth resolution;

418
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT7REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE C OMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 16, 2024
 supplementary report of the Board of directors on the issuance of shares under the Capgemini Group “esoP 2023” employee shareholding plan and 
statutory auditors’ reportstatutory auditors' report
(ii)  set the subscription price for the shares to be issued, in 
accordance with, respectively, the fifteenth and sixteenth 
resolutions adopted by the General Shareholders’ Meeting 
of the Company of May 16, 2023 as follow:
 —  considering that the average of the volume weighted 
average price (VWAP) of the Capgemini share, as 
published on the Bloomberg CAP FP EQUITY VAP website, 
during the 20  stock market trading days preceding the 
Chief Executive Officer’s decision of November  10, 
2023, i.e. from October  13, 2023 to November  9, 2023 
(inclusive), amounts to €166.63 (the “Reference Price”); 
 —  the subscription price of shares reserved for Group 
employees enrolled in a company savings plan is set at 
€145.81 corresponding, in accordance with the fifteenth resolution adopted by the General Shareholders’ Meeting 
dated May  16, 2023, and the decision of the Board of 
Directors dated June 14 -15, 2023, to the Reference Price 
minus a 12.5% discount and rounded up to the nearest 
hundredth of a euro; 
 —  the subscription price of shares reserved for Spade 
International Employees is set at €145.81, corresponding, 
in accordance with the sixteenth resolution adopted 
by the General Shareholders’ Meeting dated May  16, 
2023, and the decision of the Board of Directors dated 
June 14 -15, 2023, to the Reference Price minus a 12.5% 
discount and rounded up to the nearest hundredth of a 
euro.
2  Further details regarding the transaction
Framework of the transaction
In a press release dated September 14, 2023, the Company specified 
that this tenth international share ownership plan, proposed to 
approximately 97% of the employees of the Group, aims to associate 
all employees to the Capgemini development and performance.
The shares were subscribed to either directly or through a FCPE, 
in accordance with applicable regulatory and/or tax legislation 
in the various countries of residence of the beneficiaries of the 
capital increase.
Employees subscribed to Capgemini shares within the framework 
of a unique subscription formula called leveraged and guaranteed , 
allowing the employees to benefit from a guarantee on their 
investments made into this plan. In certain countries, employees 
will be allocated Stock Appreciation Rights (“SAR”) by their 
employer, the amount of which will be indexed in accordance with 
a formula similar to the one offered under the leveraged formula; 
a specific subscription formula was also proposed in the United 
States of America to take into account the applicable regulatory 
and tax legislation.
Subscribers to the offer shall hold either the shares subscribed to 
directly, or the corresponding units of the FCPEs, for a five -year 
period, except in the event of an authorized early exit.
other characteristics of the transaction
The reservation period of the shares (at an unknown price), during 
which the employees and corporate officers of the Capgemini Group 
could request to subscribe, was opened from September 15 to 
October 4, 2023.A subscription period, during which subscription requests made 
during the reservation period could be withdrawn, was opened 
from November 13 to 15, 2023 (inclusive), after communication 
to the beneficiaries of the subscription price established by the 
decision of the Chief Executive Officer dated November 10, 2023.
As the subscription requests were superior to the ceiling of 3,200,000 
(three million and two hundred thousand) shares set by the Board of 
Directors under the fifteenth resolution and in compliance with the 
sub-ceiling of 1,600,000 (one million six hundred thousand) shares 
set under the sixteenth resolution, the number of subscriptions 
requested was reduced, as described in the documentation 
approved by the French AMF ( Autorité des Marchés Financiers ) in 
accordance with the Board of Directors’ decision. The total number 
of shares subscribed and issued under the fifteenth resolution 
is 3,066,521 shares and the total number of shares subscribed 
and issued under the sixteenth resolution is 133,479 shares. The 
number of subscribers amounted to 50,312 employees, or 15.35% 
of the eligible population.
The newly -issued shares will be fully assimilated with the existing 
ordinary shares comprising Capgemini’s share capital. These shares 
will bear benefit entitlement as of January 1, 2023.
The request to list the newly -issued Capgemini shares to trading 
on the same line of Euronext Paris (ISIN code: FR0000125338) as 
the existing shares will be made as soon as possible following the 
completion of the capital increase scheduled to take place on 
December 19, 2023.
3  Impact of the issuance of 3,200,000 (three million and two hundred thousand) shares on the stake of 
holders of shares and securities, their shareholders’ equity per share and the theoretical impact on the 
market value of the share price
3.1	  Impact on shareholders’ stake in the share capital of the Company
For illustrative purposes, on the basis of the share capital of the Company at June 30, 2023, or 173,582,113 shares, the impact of the 
issuance of new shares on the stake of a shareholder holding 1% of the share capital of the Company prior to, and not subscribing to, 
the issuance would be as follows:
 shareholder stake (in %)  
non -diluted basis diluted basis (1) 
Before issuance of the new shares resulting from the capital increase 1% 0.97%
After issuance of the new shares resulting from the capital increase 0.98% 0.95%
(1) Calculations are made assuming the delivery of the 6,022,232  performance shares granted on June  30, 2023 (assuming that all the performance conditions will be 
satisfied).

419
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI7REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE C OMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 16, 2024
 supplementary report of the Board of directors on the issuance of shares under the Capgemini Group “esoP 2023” employee shareholding plan and 
statutory auditors’ report
3.2	  Impact of the issuance on the consolidated shareholders’ equity per share
For illustrative purposes, the impact of the issuance on the consolidated shareholders’ equity attributable to owners of the Company 
per share (calculations based on consolidated shareholders’ equity attributable to owners of the Company at June 30, 2023, and the 
number of shares comprising the share capital at June 30, 2023 after deduction of treasury shares) would be as follows:
 Consolidated shareholders’  
equity per share 
non -diluted basis diluted basis (1) 
Before issuance of the new shares resulting from the capital increase €58.51 €56.53
After issuance of the new shares resulting from the capital increase €60.11 €58.11
(1) Calculations are made assuming the delivery of the 6,022,232 performance shares granted on June 30, 2023 (assuming that all the performance conditions will be satisfied).
3.3	  Impact of the issuance on the statutory shareholders’ equity per share
The impact of the issuance on the statutory shareholders’ equity per share of Capgemini SE (calculations on the basis of an interim 
financial position at June 30, 2023, i.e. based on statutory shareholders’ equity attributable to owners of Capgemini SE at June 30, 
2023, and the number of shares comprising the share capital at June 30, 2023 after deduction of treasury shares) would be as follows:
 statutory shareholders’  
equity per share 
non -diluted basis diluted basis (1) 
Before issuance of the new shares resulting from the capital increase €89.34 €86.31
After issuance of the new shares resulting from the capital increase €90.37 €87.37
(1) Calculations are made assuming the delivery of the 6,022,232 performance shares granted on June 30, 2023 (assuming that all the performance conditions will be satisfied).
3.4	  Theoretical impact on the stock market value of the Capgemini share
The theoretical impact of the issuance of 3,200,000 (three million 
and two hundred thousand)  shares at the issuance price on the stock 
market valuation of the Capgemini share is calculated as follows:
Share price before the transaction = the average of the listed 
closing prices of the Capgemini share during the 20 stock market 
trading days preceding the fixing of the issuance price (calculated 
as the average of the closing share price between October 13 
and November 9, 2023, inclusive). This price amounts to €166.71.
Theoretical share price after the transaction = ((the average of the 
listed closing prices of the Capgemini share during the 20 stock market trading days preceding the fixing of the issuance price x the 
number of shares before the transaction) + (the issuance price x 
the number of newly -issued shares))/(the number of shares before 
the transaction + the number of newly -issued shares).
The issuance price of the reserved capital increase is set at €145.81.
Accounting for these assumptions, the theoretical post -transaction 
stock market value of the Capgemini share amounts to €166.33.
It is recalled that this theoretical approach is provided for illustrative 
purposes and does not predict future evolutions in the share price.
• • •
The terms and conditions of this report were set by the Board of Directors at its meeting of December 6, 2023,  
subject to completion of the share capital increase on December 19, 2023.
This supplementary report and the Statutory auditors’ report may be consulted by shareholders at the Company’s  
head office and will be brought to the attention of shareholders at the next Shareholders’ Meeting.
Signed in Paris, on December 6, 2023
Chairman of the Board of d irectors
Paul Hermelin

420
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT7REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE C OMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 16, 2024
 supplementary report of the Board of directors on the issuance of shares under the Capgemini Group “esoP 2023” employee shareholding plan and 
statutory auditors’ report
Statutory auditors’ additional report on the share capital increase with 
cancellation of pre-emptive subscription rights for employees of certain  
non ‑French subsidiaries and the share capital increase with cancellation of 
pre-emptive subscription rights for members of Group employee savings plans
This is a free translation into English of the Statutory auditors’ report issued in French and is provided solely for the convenience of English 
speaking readers. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional auditing 
standards applicable in France.
(Board of Directors’ meeting of December 6, 2023)
To the Shareholders,
In our capacity as Statutory auditors of Capgemini SE and in 
accordance with Article R. 225 -116 of the French Commercial Code 
(Code de commerce ), we hereby present to you an additional report 
to our reports of March 25, 2022 on the share capital increase with 
cancellation of pre -emptive subscription rights, as approved by the 
Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 19, 2022, and reserved for:
 —  members of one or more employee savings plans (or any 
other plan for whose members a share capital increase may 
be reserved on equivalent terms under Articles L.  3332 -1 
et seq . of the French Labor Code ( Code du travail ) or any 
analogous law or regulation) implemented within a company 
or a group of French or non-French companies within the 
scope of the consolidated or combined financial statements 
of the Company pursuant to Article L. 3344 -1 of the French 
Labor Code (15th resolution); 
 —  one of the following categories of beneficiary: (i) non-French 
Employees, (ii)  employee share ownership UCITS or other 
vehicles, with or without a legal personality, invested in shares 
of the Company, where the holders of units or shares are non-
French Employees, and/or (iii) any bank or entity controlled 
by a bank within the meaning of Article L. 233 -3 of the French 
Commercial Code that has set up, at the Company’s request, 
a structured offer for non-French employees presenting an 
economic profile comparable to that of an employee share 
ownership scheme set up pursuant to a share capital increase 
performed under the 15th resolution (16th resolution).
This Meeting delegated to the Board of Directors the authority 
to decide:
 —  for a period of 18 months, to carry out a transaction pursuant 
to the 15th resolution, for a maximum amount of €28 million; 
 —  for a period of 18 months, to carry out a transaction pursuant 
to the 16th resolution, for a maximum amount of €14 million, 
it being stipulated that this amount will count towards the 
ceiling of €28 million provided for in the 15th resolution.
Using these delegations, at its meeting of June 14 -15, 2023, the 
Board of Directors:
Under the 15th resolution adopted by the Combined Shareholders’ 
Meeting of May 16, 2023:
 —  decided to increase the share capital by setting a maximum 
number of 3,200,000 ordinary shares to be issued; 
 —  delegated, within this limit, to the Chief Executive Officer the 
powers required for the purposes of completing the share 
capital increase as well as that of postponing its completion. 
To this end, the Chief Executive Officer has been granted all 
powers to set the terms and conditions of the transaction 
and, in particular: –  to set the opening and closing dates of the subscription 
period, it being understood that the subscription 
period could be preceded by a reservation period for 
subscriptions,
 –  to set the maximum number of shares to be issued within 
the limit of 3,200,000 ordinary shares,
 –  to set the subscription price of the shares which, in 
accordance with the provisions of the French Labor 
Code, will be equal to the average of the volume 
weighted average price (VWAP) of the listed prices of 
the Capgemini share during the 20 stock market trading 
days preceding the date of the Chief Executive Officer’s 
decision that will set the dates of the subscription period, 
minus a 12.5% discount,
 –  to set the terms and conditions for reducing 
subscriptions requested by beneficiaries of the reserved 
capital increase in the event that the total number of 
shares requested by these beneficiaries is higher than 
the maximum authorized amount, in accordance with 
the rules described in the documents approved by the 
French Financial Markets Authority ( Autorité des Marchés 
Financiers  – AMF),
 –  to set the timeframe and the terms and conditions for 
the payment of the new shares,
 –  to acknowledge the completion of the capital increase 
up to the limit of the shares effectively subscribed, to 
adopt the report to the shareholders and to modify the 
bylaws in accordance with the transaction,
 –  to execute the issuance of the shares thus subscribed 
and take useful steps to ensure their listing and financial 
servicing,
 –  if applicable, to deduct the costs of the capital increase 
from the amount of associated premiums and withdraw 
the necessary sums from this amount to increase the 
legal reserve to one tenth of the new share capital,
 –  more generally, to carry out all transactions and execute 
all necessary formalities for the completion of the capital 
increase.
Under the 16th resolution adopted by the Combined Shareholders’ 
Meeting of May 16, 2023:
 —  decided to carry out a capital increase:
 –  by reserving the issue for a bank that, at the Company’s 
request, has set up a subscription formula proposed to 
employees and corporate officers of the companies 
related to the Company under the conditions set forth by 
Articles L. 225 -180 of the French Commercial Code and 
L. 3344 -1 of the French Labor Code and whose corporate 
headquarters are located outside of France, presenting 
an economic profile comparable to the subscription 
formula offered to employees of the Group within the 
framework of the transaction carried out pursuant to the 
15th resolution adopted by the Combined Shareholders’ 
Meeting of May 16, 2023,
 –  by setting a maximum number of 1,600,000  ordinary 
shares to be issued, without exceeding the total of 
3,200,000  shares to be issued under the 15th  and 
16th resolutions adopted by the Combined Shareholders’ 
Meeting of May 16, 2023;

421
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI7REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE C OMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 16, 2024
 supplementary report of the Board of directors on the issuance of shares under the Capgemini Group “esoP 2023” employee shareholding plan and 
statutory auditors’ report
 —  delegated, within these limits, the necessary powers to the 
Chief Executive Officer for the purposes of completing the 
capital increase as well as that of postponing its completion. 
To this end, the Chief Executive Officer has been granted all 
powers to set the terms and conditions of the transaction, 
and, in particular:
 –  to set the subscription date and subscription price of 
the shares, which, in accordance with the provisions of 
the French Labor Code, will be equal to the average of 
the volume weighted average price (VWAP) of the listed 
prices of the Capgemini share during the 20 stock market 
trading days preceding the date of the Chief Executive 
Officer’s decision that will set the opening date of 
the subscription to the capital increase carried out 
pursuant to the 15th resolution adopted by the Combined 
Shareholders’ Meeting of May 16, 2023, minus a discount 
of 12.5%,
 –  to set the number of shares to be issued to the bank to 
be named,
 –  to acknowledge the completion of the capital increase, 
to adopt the report to the shareholders and to modify 
the bylaws in accordance with the transaction,
 –  to execute the issuance of the shares thus subscribed 
and take useful steps to ensure their listing and financial 
administration services,
 –  if applicable, to deduct the costs of the capital increase 
from the amount of the associated premiums and 
withdraw the necessary sums from this amount to 
increase the legal reserve to one tenth of the new share 
capital,
 –  more generally, to carry out all transactions and execute 
all necessary formalities for the completion of the capital 
increase.
On November 10, 2023, the Chief Executive Officer:
 —  set the dates of the subscription period for the shares to 
be issued in accordance with, respectively, the 15th  and 
16th  resolutions adopted by the Combined Shareholders’ 
Meeting of May 16, 2023 as follows:
 –  the subscription period of Capgemini shares for Group 
employees enrolled in an employee savings plan will be 
open from November 13 to November 15, 2023, provided 
that employees who make a subscription request during 
the reservation period can revoke such subscription 
request during the subscription period as so set,
 –  the subscription of Capgemini shares by Spade 
International Employees, a simplified joint stock 
company ( société par actions simplifiée ), headquartered at 
12, Place des Etats-Unis – CS 70052 – 92547 Montrouge 
Cedex, and registered with the Trade and Companies 
Register of Nanterre under number 834 217 259, will be 
carried out on December 19, 2023, it being understood 
that issuance of shares to Spade International Employees 
is carried out on the basis of the 16th  resolution of the 
Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May  16, 2023 
which authorizes an increase in the share capital of 
the Company in favor of a bank that, at the Company’s 
request, has set up a subscription formula proposed 
to employees and corporate officers of the companies 
related to the Company under the conditions set forth by 
Articles L. 225 -180 of the French Commercial Code and 
L. 3344 -1 of the French Labor Code and whose corporate 
headquarters are located outside of France, presenting 
an economic profile comparable to the subscription 
formula offered to Group employees within the 
framework of the transaction carried out pursuant to the 
15th resolution adopted by the Combined Shareholders’ 
Meeting of May 16, 2023; —  set the subscription price for the shares to be issued, in 
accordance with, respectively, the 15th and  1 6th  resolutions 
adopted by the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 16, 
2023 as follows:
 –  considering that the average of the volume weighted 
average price (VWAP) of the Capgemini share, as 
published on the Bloomberg CAP FP EQUITY VAP website, 
during the 20  stock market trading days preceding this 
decision, i.e., from October 13, 2023 to November 9, 2023 
(inclusive), amounts to €166.63 (the “Reference Price”); 
 –  the subscription price of shares reserved for Group 
employees enrolled in an employee savings plan 
is set at €145.81, corresponding, in accordance 
with the 15th  resolution adopted by the Combined 
Shareholders’ Meeting of May  16, 2023, and the 
decision of the Board of Directors meeting of 
June  14 -15, 2023, to the Reference Price minus 
a 12.5% discount and rounded up to the nearest 
hundredth of a euro,
 –  the subscription price of shares reserved for 
Spade International Employees is set at €145.81, 
corresponding, in accordance with the 16th resolution 
adopted by the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting 
of May  16, 2023, and the decision of the Board 
of Directors meeting of June  14 -15, 2023, to the 
Reference Price minus a 12.5% discount and rounded 
up to the nearest hundredth of a euro.
In its additional report, the Board of Directors specifies that the 
terms of said report are subject to the final completion of the 
capital increase on December 19, 2023.
It is the responsibility of the Board of Directors to prepare a report 
in accordance with Articles R. 225-115 and R. 225 -116 of the French 
Commercial Code. It is our responsibility to express an opinion on the 
fairness of the information based on interim financial statements, 
on the cancellation of pre -emptive subscription rights and on other 
information relating to this issuance, contained in this report.
We performed the procedures that we deemed necessary in 
compliance with professional guidance issued by the French Institute 
of Statutory auditors ( Compagnie nationale des commissaires aux 
comptes ) relating to this type of engagement These procedures 
consisted in verifying:
 —  the fairness of the information taken from the interim parent 
company and consolidated financial statements at June 30, 
2023 prepared under the responsibility of the Board of 
Directors using the same methods and in the same format 
as the last and consolidated annual parent company financial 
statements. Our review of these interim financial statements 
consisted of conducting interviews with members of the 
management team responsible for financial and accounting 
matters, verifying that they had been prepared in accordance 
with the same accounting principles and using the same 
measurement and presentation methods as those used to 
prepare the last annual and consolidated parent company 
financial statements, and applying analytical procedures; 
 —  the compliance of the terms and conditions of the transaction 
with the delegation of authority granted by the Combined 
Shareholders’ Meeting of May  16, 2023 pursuant to the 
15th and 16th resolutions; 
 —  the information provided in the Board of Directors’ additional 
report on the choice of components used to calculate the 
issue price and the final amount of the share issue.

422
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT7REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE C OMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 16, 2024
 supplementary report of the Board of directors on the issuance of shares under the Capgemini Group “esoP 2023” employee shareholding plan and 
statutory auditors’ report
We have no matters to report as to:
 —  the fairness of the financial information taken from these 
interim financial statements and the information provided in 
the Board of Directors’ additional report; 
 —  the compliance of the terms and conditions of the transaction 
with the delegations of authority granted by the Combined 
Shareholders’ Meeting of May 16, 2023 and the information 
provided to shareholders;  —  the choice of components used to calculate the issue price 
and the final issue price; 
 —  the presentation of the impact of the share issue on the 
situation of holders of shares or securities giving access to the 
Company’s share capital, assessed as regards shareholders’ 
equity and the market share price; 
 —  the cancellation of shareholders’ pre -emptive subscription 
rights which was previously submitted to you for approval.
Neuilly -sur-Seine and Paris-La Défense, December 18, 2023
The s tatutory auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit Mazars
Itto El Hariri
PartnerRomain Dumont
PartnerDominique Muller
PartnerAnne-Laure Rousselou
Partner

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE C OMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 16, 2024
statutory auditors’ special report
423
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI774  Statutory auditors’ special report
Statutory auditors’ report on the share capital decrease
This is a free translation into English of the Statutory auditors’ report issued in French and is provided solely for the convenience of English 
speaking readers. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional auditing 
standards applicable in France.
(Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 16, 2024  
– 17th resolution)
To the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of Capgemini SE,
In our capacity as Statutory auditors of your Company and in 
accordance with Article L. 22 -10-62 of the French Commercial 
Code ( Code de commerce ) relating to a share capital decrease by 
cancellation of shares bought back by the Company, we hereby 
report to you on our assessment of the reasons for and terms and 
conditions of the proposed share capital decrease.
The Board of Directors proposes that you grant it, for a 26 -month 
period commencing on the date of this Shareholders’ Meeting, full 
powers to cancel the shares acquired under the Company’s share 
buyback program pursuant to the provisions of the aforementioned article, provided that the aggregate number of shares cancelled 
in any given 24 -month period does not exceed 10% of the shares 
comprising the Company’s share capital at the date of each 
cancellation.
We performed the procedures that we deemed necessary in 
accordance with the professional guidance issued by the French 
Institute of Statutory auditors ( Compagnie nationale des commissaires 
aux comptes ) relating to this engagement. These procedures require 
that we ensure that the reasons for and terms and conditions of the 
proposed share capital decrease, which is not considered to affect 
shareholder equality, comply with the applicable legal provisions.
We have no matters to report on the reasons for and terms and 
conditions of the proposed share capital decrease.
Neuilly -sur-Seine and Courbevoie, March 8, 2024
The s tatutory Auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit Mazars
Itto El Hariri
PartnerRomain Dumont
PartnerDominique Muller
PartnerAnne-Laure Rousselou
Partner
Statutory auditors’ report on the issue of shares and/or securities with  
and/or without pre‑emptive subscription rights
This is a free translation into English of the Statutory auditors’ report issued in French and is provided solely for the convenience of English 
speaking readers. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional auditing 
standards applicable in France.
(Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 16, 2024  
– 19th to 24th resolutions)
To the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of Capgemini SE,
In our capacity as Statutory auditors of Capgemini SE, and in 
accordance with Articles L. 228 -92 and L. 225 -135 et seq.  as well 
as Article L. 22 -10-52 of the French Commercial Code ( Code 
de commerce ), we hereby present our report on the proposed 
delegations of authority to the Board of Directors to issue shares 
and/or securities, which are submitted to you for your approval.
On the basis of its report, the Board of Directors proposes that you:
 —  delegate to the Board, with the power of sub -delegation, for 
a 26 -month period, the authority to carry out the following 
transactions and set the final terms and conditions of the 
related issues and, if necessary, to cancel your pre -emptive 
subscription rights:
 –  issue with retention of pre -emptive subscription rights 
(19th  resolution) of ordinary shares and/or securities 
governed by Articles L.  228 -92, paragraph  1, L.  228 -93, 
paragraphs 1 and 3 or L.  228 -94, paragraph  2, of the 
French Commercial Code granting access, immediately 
or in the future, at any time or at fixed dates, by 
subscription, conversion, exchange, redemption, 
presentation of a warrant or any other means, to the share capital (including equity securities granting rights 
to the allocation of debt instruments) of the Company 
or other companies (including companies in which the 
Company owns directly or indirectly more than half the 
share capital),
 –  issue with cancellation of pre -emptive subscription 
rights by way of public offers other than those referred 
to in Article L.  411 -2 1°  of the French Monetary and 
Financial Code (20th r esol ution )  of  or dinary  shar es  and/
or securities governed by Articles L. 228 -92, paragraph 1, 
L. 228 -93, paragraphs 1 and 3 or L. 228 -94, paragraph 2, 
of the French Commercial Code granting access, 
immediately or in the future, at any time or at fixed dates, 
by subscription, conversion, exchange, redemption, 
presentation of a warrant or any other means, to the 
share capital (including equity securities granting rights 
to the allocation of debt instruments) of the Company 
or other companies (including companies in which the 
Company owns directly or indirectly more than half the 
share capital). It being specified that these securities may 
be issued as payment for shares, meeting the conditions 
set out in Article L.  22 -10-54  of the French Commercial 
Code, tendered in a public exchange offer made in France 
or internationally in accordance with local regulations 
(i.e., a reverse merger or scheme of arrangement),

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE C OMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 16, 2024
statutory auditors’ special report
424
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT7 –  issue with cancellation of pre -emptive subscription rights 
by way of public offers referred to in Article L. 411 -2 1° of 
the French Monetary and Financial Code (21st resolution) 
of ordinary shares and/or securities governed by Articles 
L. 228 -92, paragraph 1, L. 228 -93, paragraphs 1 and 3 or 
L. 228 -94, paragraph 2, of the French Commercial Code 
granting access, immediately or in the future, at any time 
or at fixed dates, by subscription, conversion, exchange, 
redemption, presentation of a warrant or any other 
means, to the share capital (including equity securities 
granting rights to the allocation of debt instruments) of 
the Company or other companies (including companies 
in which the Company owns directly or indirectly more 
than half the share capital); 
 —  authorize the Board, pursuant to the 22nd  resolution and 
within the framework of the delegation of authority covered 
in the 20th and 21st resolutions, to set the issue price, within 
the annual legal limit of 10% of the share capital;
 —  delegate to the Board, for a 26 -month period, all powers 
necessary to issue ordinary shares and/or securities governed 
by Articles L. 228-92 paragraph 1, L. 228 -93 paragraphs 1 and 
3 or L. 228-94 paragraph 2 of the French Commercial Code 
granting access, immediately or in the future, at any time 
or at fixed dates, by subscription, conversion, exchange, 
redemption, presentation of a warrant or any other means, 
to the share capital (including equity securities granting 
rights to the allocation of debt instruments) of the Company 
or other companies (including companies in which the 
Company owns directly or indirectly more than half the share 
capital), in consideration for contributions in kind to the 
Company consisting of shares or securities granting access 
to share capital (24th resolution), within the limit of 10% of 
the share capital.
The nominal amount of share capital increases that may be carried 
out, either immediately or in the future, pursuant to the 19th, 20th, 
21st, 22nd, 23rd and 24th resolutions may not exceed, pursuant to the 
19th resolution, €540 million, it being specified that:
 —  the nominal amount of the capital increases that may be 
carried out pursuant to the 20th resolution may not exceed 
€135 million and will count towards the overall ceiling set out 
in the 19th resolution;
 —  the nominal amount of the capital increases that may be 
carried out pursuant to the 21st a n d  2 4th resolutions may 
not exceed €135  million and will count towards the ceiling 
set in the 20th  resolution and the overall ceiling set in the 
19th resolution.
The aggregate nominal amount of the debt securities that may 
be issued, immediately or in the future, pursuant to the 20th, 21st, 
22nd, 23rd and 2 4th resolutions may not exceed, pursuant to the 
19th resolution, €5.9 billion, it being specified that: —  the nominal amount of the debt securities that may be issued, 
immediately or in the future, pursuant to the 20th resolution 
may not exceed €5.9 billion and will count towards the overall 
ceiling set in the 19th resolution,
 —  the nominal amount of the debt instruments that may be 
issued, immediately or in the future, pursuant to the 21st and 
24th  resolutions may not exceed €5.9  billion and will count 
towards the ceiling set in the 20th resolution and the overall 
ceiling set in the 19th resolution.
The overall ceilings set in the 19th resolution take into account 
the additional securities to be issued within the framework of the 
delegations of authority covered in the 19th, 20th, 21st, 22nd and 
24th resolutions, under the conditions set out in Article L. 225 -135-1 of 
the French Commercial Code, if you adopt the 23rd resolution.
It is the Board of Directors’ responsibility to prepare a report in 
accordance with Articles R. 225 -113 et seq.  of the French Commercial 
Code. It is our responsibility to express an opinion on the fairness 
of the information taken from the financial statements, on the 
proposed cancellation of pre -emptive subscription rights and on 
certain other information relating to these transactions, presented 
in this report.
We performed the procedures that we deemed necessary in 
accordance with the professional guidance issued by the French 
Institute of Statutory auditors ( Compagnie nationale des commissaires 
aux comptes ) relating to this engagement. These procedures 
consisted in verifying the information disclosed in the Board of 
Directors’ report pertaining to these transactions and the methods 
used to set the issue price of the equity securities to be issued.
Subject to a subsequent examination of the issue terms and 
conditions that would be decided, we have no matters to report 
as regards the methods used to set the issue price of the equity 
securities to be issued given in the Board of Directors’ report in 
respect of the 20th, 21st and 22nd resolutions.
In addition, as this report does not stipulate the methods used to 
set the issue price in the event that securities are issued pursuant 
to the implementation of the 19th and 2 4th resolutions, we do 
not express an opinion on the components used to calculate the 
issue price.
Since the final terms and conditions of the issues have not been set, 
we do not express an opinion in this respect or, consequently, on the 
proposed cancellation of shareholders’ pre -emptive subscription 
rights presented in the 20th and 21st resolutions.
In accordance with Article R. 225 -116 of the French Commercial 
Code, we will prepare an additional report if and when the Board 
of Directors uses its delegations of authority to issue securities 
that are equity securities granting access to other equity securities 
or rights to the allocation of debt instruments, to issue securities 
granting access to equity securities to be issued or to issue shares 
with cancellation of pre -emptive subscription rights.
Neuilly -sur-Seine and Courbevoie, March 8, 2024
The s tatutory Auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit Mazars
Itto El Hariri
PartnerRomain Dumont
PartnerDominique Muller
PartnerAnne-Laure Rousselou
Partner

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE C OMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 16, 2024
statutory auditors’ special report
425
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI7Statutory auditors’ report on the delegation of authority to grant free shares 
(existing or to be issued) to employees and corporate officers
This is a free translation into English of the Statutory auditors’ report issued in French and is provided solely for the convenience of English 
speaking readers. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional auditing 
standards applicable in France.
(Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 16, 2024  
– 25th resolution)
To the Combined General Meeting of Capgemini SE,
In our capacity as Statutory auditors of Capgemini S.E., and in 
accordance with Article L. 225 -197-1 of the French Commercial 
Code ( Code de commerce ), we hereby report to you on the proposed 
delegation of authority to grant free shares (existing or to be 
issued), subject to performance conditions, to employees and 
corporate officers of the Company and the French and non-French 
subsidiaries related to the Company within the meaning of Article 
L. 225 -197-2 of the French Commercial Code, which is submitted 
to you for your approval.
The Board of Directors’ report states that:
 —  the total number of shares, existing or to be issued, that may 
be granted pursuant to this delegation of authority will be 
limited to a maximum number of shares not exceeding 1.2% 
of the Company’s share capital as at the date of the Board of 
Directors’ decision. It also states that the granting of shares 
to Executive Corporate Officers of the Company will be 
limited to 10% of the aforementioned amount.
 —  the Board of Directors will set the performance conditions 
applicable to the granting of shares, in accordance with 
the conditions defined in the Board of Directors’ report. 
The Board of Directors may, nonetheless, grant up to 15% of the above ceiling to employees of the Company and its 
French subsidiaries (within the meaning, particularly, of 
Article L.  22 -10-60, paragraph  1, of the French Commercial 
Code) and non-French subsidiaries, excluding members of 
the general management team (the Executive Committee), 
without performance conditions.
On the basis of its report, the Board of Directors proposes that 
you delegate it the authority, for a period of 18 months as of the 
date of this Shareholders’ Meeting, to grant free shares, existing 
or to be issued.
It is the Board of Directors’ responsibility to prepare a report on the 
proposed transaction. It is our responsibility to provide you with 
our observations, if any, in respect of the information provided to 
you on the proposed transaction.
We performed those procedures which we deemed necessary in 
compliance with professional guidance issued by the French Institute 
of Statutory auditors ( Compagnie nationale des commissaires aux 
comptes ) relating to this type of engagement. These procedures 
consisted, in particular, in verifying that the proposed terms and 
conditions described in the Board of Directors’ report comply with 
the applicable legal provisions.
We have no matters to report as regards the information provided 
in the Board of Directors’ report with respect to the proposed 
delegation of authority to grant free shares.
Neuilly -sur-Seine and Courbevoie, March 8, 2024
The s tatutory Auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit Mazars
Itto El Hariri
PartnerRomain Dumont
PartnerDominique Muller
PartnerAnne-Laure Rousselou
Partner
Statutory auditors’ report on the issue of ordinary shares and/or various 
securities granting access to the share capital for members of a Capgemini 
Group employee savings plan
This is a free translation into English of the Statutory auditors’ report issued in French and is provided solely for the convenience of English 
speaking readers. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional auditing 
standards applicable in France.
(Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 16, 2024  
– 26th resolution)
To the Combined General Meeting of Capgemini SE,
In our capacity as Statutory auditors of Capgemini SE and in 
accordance with Articles L. 228 -92 and L. 225 -135 et seq . of the 
French Commercial Code ( Code de commerce ), we hereby report 
to you on the proposed delegation of authority to the Board of 
Directors to decide the issue of ordinary shares of the Company 
and/or various securities governed by Articles L. 228-92 paragraph 1, 
L. 228 -93 paragraphs 1 and 3 or L. 228-94 paragraph 2 of the French 
Commercial Code, granting access, immediately or in the future, 
at any time or at fixed dates, by way of subscription, conversion, 
exchange, redemption, presentation of a warrant or any other 
means, to the share capital of the Company, with cancellation of 
shareholders’ pre -emptive subscription rights, which is submitted 
to you for your approval.This issue will be:
 —  reserved for members of one or more employee savings 
plans (or any other plan for whose members a share capital 
increase may be reserved on equivalent terms under Articles 
L. 3332 -1 et seq.  of the French Labor Code or any similar law 
or regulation) implemented within a company or group of 
companies, whether French or non-French, within the scope 
of the consolidated or combined financial statements of the 
Company pursuant to Article L. 3344 -1 of the French Labor 
Code; 
 —  limited to a maximum nominal amount of €28 million.
This issue is submitted to you for approval pursuant to the provisions 
of Article L. 225 -129-6 of the French Commercial Code and Articles 
L. 3332 -18 et seq . of the French Labor Code.

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE C OMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 16, 2024
statutory auditors’ special report
426
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT7On the basis of its report, the Board of Directors proposes that 
you grant it the authority, for a period of 18 months, to decide an 
issue and cancel your pre -emptive subscription rights to the equity 
securities to be issued. Where applicable, it will set the definitive 
terms and conditions of the issue.
It is the Board of Directors’ responsibility to prepare a report in 
accordance with Articles R. 225 -113 and R. 225-113 R. 225-114 of 
the French Commercial Code. It is our responsibility to express 
an opinion on the fairness of the information taken from the 
financial statements, on the proposed cancellation of pre -emptive 
subscription rights and on certain other information relating to 
the issue, presented in this report.
We performed those procedures which we deemed necessary in 
compliance with professional guidance issued by the French Institute 
of Statutory auditors ( Compagnie nationale des commissaires aux 
comptes ) relating to this type of engagement. These procedures consisted in verifying the information disclosed in the Board of 
Directors’ report pertaining to the transaction and the methods 
used to set the issue price of the securities to be issued.
Subject to a subsequent examination of the terms and conditions 
of any issue that would be decided, we have no matters to report 
as regards the methods used to set the issue price of the equity 
securities to be issued set out in the Board of Directors’ report.
Since the final terms and conditions of the issue have not been 
set, we do not express an opinion in this respect or, consequently, 
on the proposed cancellation of shareholders’ pre -emptive 
subscription rights.
In accordance with Article R. 225 -116 of the French Commercial 
Code, we will prepare an additional report if and when the Board 
of Directors uses this delegation to issue shares and securities 
granting access to the other securities or to issue securities granting 
access to equity securities to be issued.
Neuilly -sur-Seine and Courbevoie, March 8, 2024
The s tatutory Auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit Mazars
Itto El Hariri
PartnerRomain Dumont
PartnerDominique Muller
PartnerAnne-Laure Rousselou
Partner
Statutory auditors’ report on the issue of ordinary shares and/or securities 
granting access to the share capital with cancellation of pre‑emptive 
subscription rights reserved for employees of certain non-French subsidiaries
This is a free translation into English of the Statutory auditors’ report issued in French and is provided solely for the convenience of English 
speaking readers. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional auditing 
standards applicable in France.
(Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 16, 2024  
– 27th resolution)
To the Combined General Meeting of Capgemini SE,
In our capacity as Statutory auditors of Capgemini S.E. and in 
accordance with the provisions of Articles L. 228 -92 and L. 225 -135 et 
seq. of the French Commercial Code ( Code de commerce ), we hereby 
report to you on the proposed delegation of authority to the Board 
of Directors to decide the issue of ordinary shares and/or securities 
governed by Articles L. 228-92 paragraph 1, L. 228 -93 paragraphs 
1 and 3 or L. 228-94 paragraph 2 of the French Commercial Code, 
granting access, immediately or in the future, at any time or at fixed 
dates, by way of subscription, conversion, exchange, redemption, 
presentation of a warrant or any other means, to the share capital 
of the Company, with cancellation of shareholders’ pre -emptive 
subscription rights, which is submitted to you for your approval.
This issue will be reserved for:
i  the employees and corporate officers referred to in 
Articles L. 3332 -1 and L. 3332 -2 of the French Labor Code of 
Capgemini Group companies whose registered offices are 
located in countries where the legal and/or tax context could 
make it inadvisable or difficult to implement employee share 
ownership plans directly or through company mutual fund 
(hereinafter the “non-French Employees”); the “Capgemini 
Group” comprises the Company and the French and non-
French companies related to the Company under the terms 
of Article L.  225 -180  of the French Commercial Code and 
Articles L. 3344 -1 et seq . of the French Labor Code;ii  employee share ownership UCITS or other vehicles, with 
or without a legal personality, invested in shares of the 
Company, where the unitholders or shareholders are non-
French Employees; 
iii  any bank or entity controlled by such an establishment, 
within the meaning of Article L.  233 -3  of the French 
Commercial Code that has set up, at the Company’s request, 
a structured offer for non-French Employees presenting an 
economic profile comparable to that of an employee share 
ownership plan set up for the purposes of a share capital 
increase carried out under the previous resolution submitted 
to this Combined Shareholders’ Meeting.
The Board of Directors’ reports stipulates that this delegation 
may be used only in the event of use of the delegation provided 
for in the 26th resolution.
The maximum nominal amount of share capital increases that 
may be carried out under this delegation is set at €14 million, it 
being stipulated that this amount will count towards the ceiling 
of €28 million provided for in the 26th resolution (subject to its 
approval) or, as the case may be, towards any ceiling provided for 
in a similar resolution that may supersede said resolution during 
the period of validity of this authorization.
On the basis of its report, the Board of Directors proposes that 
you grant it the authority, for a period of 18 months, to decide an 
issue and cancel your pre -emptive subscription rights to the equity 
securities to be issued. Where applicable, it will set the definitive 
terms and conditions of the issue.

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE C OMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 16, 2024
statutory auditors’ special report
427
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI7It is the Board of Directors’ responsibility to prepare a report in 
accordance with Articles R. 225 -113 and R. 225 -114 of the French 
Commercial Code. It is our responsibility to express an opinion on 
the fairness of the information taken from the financial statements, 
on the proposed cancellation of pre -emptive subscription rights 
and on certain other information relating to the issue, presented 
in this report.
We performed those procedures which we deemed necessary in 
compliance with professional guidance issued by the French Institute 
of Statutory auditors ( Compagnie nationale des commissaires aux 
comptes ) relating to this type of engagement. These procedures 
consisted in verifying the information disclosed in the Board of 
Directors’ report pertaining to the transaction and the methods 
used to set the issue price of the equity securities to be issued.Subject to a subsequent examination of the terms and conditions 
of any issue that would be decided, we have no matters to report 
as regards the methods used to set the issue price of the equity 
securities to be issued, set out in the Board of Directors’ report.
Since the final terms and conditions of the issue have not been 
set, we do not express an opinion in this respect or, consequently, 
on the proposed cancellation of shareholders’ pre -emptive 
subscription rights.
In accordance with Article R. 225 -116 of the French Commercial 
Code, we will prepare an additional report if and when the Board 
of Directors uses this authorization to issue shares or securities 
giving access to the other securities or to issue securities giving 
access to securities to be issued.
Neuilly -sur-Seine and Courbevoie, March 8, 2024
The s tatutory Auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit Mazars
Itto El Hariri
PartnerRomain Dumont
PartnerDominique Muller
PartnerAnne-Laure Rousselou
Partner

428
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT7REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE C OMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 16, 2024
 

429
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI881 ——  LEGAL INFORMATION  430
811		Corporate	name,	head	office	and	website	 430
812   Legal form and governing law 430
813   Date of incorporation and term 430
814		Corporate	purpose	(Article	3 of	the	bylaws)	 430
815   Incorporation details and LEI 431
816   Documents available 431
817   Fiscal year 431
818		Appropriation	and	distribution	of	profits	 431
819   Shareholders’ Meetings 431
8110   Disclosure thresholds 431
8111		Shareholder	identification	 432
8112   Voting rights 432
8113   Changes in shareholder rights 432
8114		Rights,	privileges	and	restrictions	relating	to	shares	 432
8115		Provisions	of	the	bylaws	or	other	provisions	that	could	delay,	
defer or prevent a change in control 432
8116		Factors	affecting	a	potential	takeover	bid	 432
8117   Provisions of the bylaws governing administrative and management bodies 432
82 ——  HISTORICAL FINANCIAL INFORMATION FOR 2021 AND 2022  433
83 ——  PERSONS RESPONSIBLE FOR THE INFORMATION  434
831   Person responsible for the Universal Registration Document 434
832   Declaration by the person responsible for the Universal Registration Document 434
833		Persons	responsible	for	the	audit	of	the	financial	statements	 434
834		Person	responsible	for	financial	information	 434ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION

AddITIonAL InF orMATIon
Legal information
430
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT881  Legal information
811  Corporate name, head office and website
Corporate name: Capgemini
To align its corporate name with that of the Group, the Company’s 
name was changed from “Cap Gemini” to “Capgemini” on its conversion 
to a European company ( Societas Europaea , SE), by decision of the 
Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of May 10, 2017.Head office: 11, rue de Tilsitt, 75017 Paris, France
Tel.: +33 (0) 1 47 54 50 00
Website: https://www.capgemini.com
The information presented on the Company’s websites is not an 
integral part of this Universal Registration Document.
812  Legal form and governing law
The Company was initially incorporated as a société anonyme  (joint 
stock company) and converted to a European company ( Societas 
Europaea , SE) by decision of the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of May 10, 2017, to enable the legal form to better reflect 
the Group’s international and European outlook.
The Company is governed by prevailing French and European 
legislative and regulatory provisions and the provisions of its bylaws.
813  Date of incorporation and term
To prepare and facilitate the IPO on the Paris Stock Exchange of Cap 
Gemini Sogeti (incorporated in 1967) a new company, Cap Gemini, 
grouping together all investments representing the operating 
activities of the Group was incorporated on September 17, 1984. 
This Company was registered with the Companies & Trade Registry 
on October 4, 1984.The Company was set up for a period of ninety -nine years from the 
date of its registration with the Paris Companies & Trade Registry. It 
may be wound up in advance or have its term extended by decision 
of the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting.
814  Corporate purpose (Article 3 of the bylaws)
The Company’s purpose is to assist companies in France and abroad 
in managing and developing their businesses by providing them 
with the benefit of its knowledge of their industry, its know -how 
in the area of business process engineering and re -engineering, 
and its expertise in the area of information technologies.
To fulfill this purpose, the Company carries out on behalf of clients, 
either directly, or through its subsidiaries or affiliates, one or more 
of the following activities on a stand -alone or integrated basis:
Management consulting
Working closely with clients, the Company provides change 
management assistance to companies by helping them to redefine 
or redirect their strategy, change their product and service lines, 
re-engineer their structures and business processes, restore staff 
motivation and achieve other changes. To this end, the Company uses 
all the possibilities offered by the latest information technologies 
whenever appropriate.
The Company designs and installs information 
systems
The Company designs and installs information systems. Its services 
include the development of customized software, the installation 
of software applications available on the market or developed 
internally and the integration of systems incorporating hardware, 
communication systems, customized software, software packages 
and other components. The Company also supports clients’ IT 
projects by providing consulting, project management, training 
and assistance services.Outsourcing
The Company manages all or part of its clients’ IT resources on 
their behalf. In this context, the Company may perform all or part 
of this service using its own hardware, telecommunications systems 
and other equipment.
The Company may also manage the IT-based services offered to its 
clients’ own clientele. In addition, it may work in partnership with 
clients within a structure conducting all or some of these activities.
In order to fulfill its corporate purpose, the Company may decide to:
 —  create specialist subsidiaries or acquire interests in the 
capital of other companies and manage their business 
in exchange for a fee. Management services include the 
provision of technical, marketing, legal and financial 
assistance, promotion of a consistent image, organization 
of financial structures, assistance in negotiations to help 
these companies win new contracts, training, research and 
development support, etc.; 
 —  invest and manage the Company’s available funds, make cash 
advances, and provide any and all guarantees or collateral on 
behalf of subsidiaries and affiliates; 
 —  obtain or acquire and use any and all patents and 
manufacturing processes and sell, contribute or license any 
such patents and processes.
In broader terms, the Company’s purpose includes carrying out any 
and all commercial, industrial, securities, real estate or financial 
transactions related, directly or indirectly, to any of the above 
purposes or any similar or related purpose or which is likely to 
facilitate the fulfillment or furtherance of these purposes.

AddITIonAL InF orMATIon
Legal information
431
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI8815  Incorporation details and LEI
The Company is registered with the Paris Companies & Trade Registry 
(Registre du Commerce et des Sociétés ) under number 330 703 844. 
Its APE business identifier is 7010Z.The Company’s Legal Entity Identifier (LEI) is 96950077L0TN7BAROX36.
816  Documents available
During the period of validity of this Universal Registration 
Document, the following documents concerning the Company 
(or a copy thereof ) are available for consultation at the Company’s 
head office: 11, rue de Tilsitt – 75017 Paris or on the Company’s 
website: https://investors.capgemini.com :
 —  this Universal Registration Document, also available on the 
AMF website ( www.amf-france.org );  —  the Company’s bylaws; and
 —  all reports, letters and other documents, historical financial 
information, appraisals and statements prepared by experts 
at the request of the Company, some of which are included in 
or referred to in this Universal Registration Document.
817  Fiscal year
The Company’s fiscal year commences on January 1 and ends on December 31.
818  Appropriation and distribution of profits
The Shareholders’ Meeting has sole discretionary powers to 
decide on the appropriation of distributable income, as defined 
by French company law. Consequently, the Shareholders’ Meeting 
may decide to appropriate all or part of distributable income to 
revenue reserves, special reserves or retained earnings, or to 
distribute all or part of the amount to shareholders.
The Shareholders’ Meeting also decides the terms and conditions 
of payment of dividends. In particular, shareholders may be offered a stock dividend alternative, in which case the related dividends 
will be paid in the form of new shares credited as fully paid, in 
compliance with applicable laws and regulations. The above 
provisions also apply to the distribution of interim dividends, 
subject to compliance with French company law.
In addition, the Shareholders’ Meeting may decide to distribute a 
dividend out of distributable reserves, subject to compliance with 
French company law.
819  Shareholders’ Meetings
The right to participate at Shareholders’ Meetings is evidenced by 
the registration of shares in the name of the shareholder (or of the 
intermediary acting on his/her behalf if domiciled outside France) 
in the Company’s share register or in the register of bearer shares 
held by the applicable authorized intermediary. Such registration 
must be recorded at 12:00 a.m. (Paris time) on the second working 
day preceding the Shareholders’ Meeting and any related notices 
must be filed at one of the addresses indicated in the Notice of 
meeting. In the case of bearer shares, the authorized intermediary 
must provide a participation certificate.
Shareholders may participate in Shareholders’ Meetings in person, 
by proxy or by casting a remote vote in accordance with the terms 
and conditions set by applicable regulations.
Shareholders who have informed the Company that they wish 
to participate in a meeting in person, remotely or by proxy may 
not alter their method of participation. However, attendance at 
a meeting by a shareholder in person shall cancel any votes cast 
by proxy or remotely.
To be taken into account, remote votes or proxy forms must be 
received by the Company at least three days prior to the date of the meeting. If the Board of Directors so decides when convening the 
meeting, shareholders voting by proxy or remotely may participate 
in voting using any telecommunication or teletransmission means 
enabling their identification, including the internet, in accordance 
with the conditions set out in applicable regulations at the time 
of use. Where an electronic form is submitted, the shareholder’s 
signature may take the form of a secure signature or a reliable 
identification procedure guaranteeing the link with the related action 
and potentially consisting of a user identification and password. 
Where applicable, this decision of the Board of Directors shall be 
communicated in the Notice of meeting published in BALO (French 
Journal of Mandatory Legal Announcements).
Where a shareholder has given proxy to a third party and has also 
voted remotely, if there is any difference in the two votes, the 
remote vote will be taken into account and the proxy ignored.
Shareholders’ Meetings deliberate under the conditions provided 
by law. Majority is calculated based on the number of “votes 
cast”, which does not include votes attaching to shares where the 
shareholder has not taken part in the vote, has abstained, or has 
returned a blank or spoiled ballot paper.
8110  Disclosure thresholds
The fifteenth resolution adopted by the Extraordinary Shareholders’ 
Meeting of May 10, 2017 amended the provisions applicable to 
disclosure thresholds per the bylaws and Article 10 of the bylaws 
accordingly.
Going forward, only shareholders holding more than 5% of the 
Company’s capital or voting rights are required to report to 
the Company, within a period of four (4) stock market days, the 
crossing, through an increase or a decrease, of each threshold of 
1% of capital or voting rights, from this lower threshold of 5% to the threshold triggering a mandatory public offer in accordance 
with prevailing regulations.
In the event of failure to comply with these disclosure rules and at 
the request of one or several shareholders with combined holdings 
representing at least 5% of the Company’s share capital or voting 
rights, the undisclosed shares will be stripped of voting rights. This 
sanction will apply for all Shareholders’ Meetings for a period of 
two years from the date on which the failure to disclose is rectified. 
This request and the decision of the Shareholders’ Meeting must 
be recorded in the minutes of the Shareholders’ Meeting.

AddITIonAL InF orMATIon
Legal information
432
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT8When calculating these “thresholds per the bylaws” the same 
instances where shares and voting rights held by third parties are deemed equivalent to shares and voting rights held by the 
shareholder subject to legal disclosure requirements are applicable.
8111  Shareholder identification
The Company can use available legal provisions to identify holders of bearer shares.
8112  Voting rights
Following the decision of the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting 
of May 6, 2015 in its tenth resolution not to apply the provisions 
of Article L. 225 -123 of the French Commercial Code regarding 
double voting rights, each share carries entitlement to one vote. 
This includes fully paid shares held in registered form for at least two years by the same shareholder and bonus registered shares 
granted in respect of registered shares held for at least two years 
in the event of a share capital increase by capitalization of reserves, 
profits or additional paid -in capital.
8113  Changes in shareholder rights
Changes in the share capital or the rights attached to shares are subject to compliance with French company law alone, as the bylaws 
do not contain any specific provisions in this respect.
8114  Rights, privileges and restrictions relating to shares
In addition to the voting right conferred by law, each share confers 
entitlement to a portion of the profits and any liquidation surplus, 
in direct proportion to the number and par value of outstanding 
shares.No preferential rights are attached to any specific class of shares 
or category of shareholder.
8115  Provisions of the bylaws or other provisions that could delay, 
defer or prevent a change in control
Not applicable.
8116  Factors affecting a potential takeover bid
No factors are subject to the provisions of Article L. 22 -10-11 of the French Commercial Code.
8117  Provisions of the bylaws governing administrative and 
management bodies
Appointment of Directors and duration of  
terms of office
The Company has a Board of Directors comprised of a minimum 
of three and a maximum of eighteen members, who must be 
individuals. Directors are appointed individually by Shareholders’ 
Meeting for a period of four years. Directors, other than Directors 
representing employees or employee shareholders are appointed 
or reappointed on a rolling basis to ensure the staggered renewal of 
terms of office in as equal fractions as possible. Exceptionally, and 
solely for the purposes of this rolling renewal, the Shareholders’ 
Meeting may appoint one or more Directors for a term of one, 
two or three years.
In addition, a Director representing employee shareholders is also 
appointed by Shareholders’ Meeting for a period of four years when, 
at the end of a fiscal year, the percentage of share capital held by 
employees of the Company and companies related to it within 
the meaning of Article L. 225 -180 of the French Commercial Code, 
represents over 3% of the Company’s share capital. The Director 
representing employee shareholders is elected by the Ordinary 
Shareholders’ Meeting from a choice of two candidates nominated 
in accordance with the provisions of the law and the bylaws.
Pursuant to employee representation requirements on the Board 
of Directors in accordance with the provisions of the Rebsamen Law of August 17, 2015, the Board of Directors also includes two 
Directors representing employees, appointed for a period of four 
years as follows:
 —  a Director representing employees appointed by the union 
body which obtained the most votes at the first round of the 
elections referred to in Articles L. 2122 -1 and L. 2122 -4 of the 
French Labor Code, organized by the Company and direct 
or indirect subsidiaries whose registered office is located in 
France; 
 —  a second Director appointed by the European Group Council 
(known as the International Works Council in Capgemini 
group).
The Director representing employee shareholders and the Directors 
representing employees are not taken into account in determining 
the maximum number of Directors pursuant to Article L. 225 -17 of 
the French Commercial Code.
Age limit for Directors
Pursuant to Article 11.4 of the bylaws, the number of Directors 
over seventy -five (75) years of age at the end of each Shareholders’ 
Meeting called to approve the Company financial statements, may 
not exceed one -third (rounded up to the nearest whole number 
where appropriate) of the total number of Directors in office.

AddITIonAL InF orMATIon
historical Financial Information for 2021 and 2022
433
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI8Age limit for the Chairman of the Board of Directors
The age limit for the exercise of the duties of Chairman of the 
Board of Directors is as follows:
 —  seventy (70) years of age when he/she also holds the position 
of Chief Executive Officer (CEO); 
 —  seventy -nine (79) years of age when he/she does not hold the 
position of Chief Executive Officer.
In both cases, the term of office expires at the end of the first 
Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting following the Chairman’s birthday.
Where the duties of Chairman and those of Chief Executive Officer 
are separated, the duties of Chief Executive Officer expire the 
day of the first Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting following his/her 
seventieth birthday.
Minimum investment by Directors in the share capital 
of the Company
Pursuant to Article 11.2 of the bylaws, each Director must hold at 
least five hundred (500) Company shares throughout their term 
of office.
This obligation to hold shares does not apply to Directors representing 
employee shareholders and Directors representing employees.Majority rules within the Board of Directors
Decisions are taken in accordance with quorum and majority rules 
provided by law, except for the decision regarding the two possible 
methods for the Company’s general management. Where voting is 
tied, the Chairman of the Company has the casting vote.
General management
The general management of the Company is assumed by either the 
Chairman of the Board of Directors (who therefore holds the title 
of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer), or by another individual 
appointed by the Board of Directors, who holds the title of Chief 
Executive Officer. The Board of Directors chooses between these 
two possible methods for the Company’s general management, 
voting with a two -thirds majority of all Directors.
Since May 20, 2020, the general management of the Company 
has been assumed by Mr. Aiman Ezzat, the Board of Directors 
having decided to separate the duties of Chairman of the Board 
of Directors and Chief Executive Officer from this date.
For more information, please refer to Chapter 2.1.2 of this Universal 
Registration Document.
Charter and Board Special Committees
Please refer to Chapter 2 of this Universal Registration Document.
82  Historical Financial Information for 2021 and 2022
In accordance with Article 19 of European regulation no. 2017/1129 
of June 14, 2017, the following information is incorporated by 
reference in this Universal Registration Document and is available 
at https://investors.capgemini.com/en/annual-reports/?fiscal-year :
 —  relating to the year ended December 31, 2022:
 –  the Management Report, consolidated financial 
statements and the Statutory auditors’ report on 
the consolidated financial statements, set out in the 
Universal Registration Document filed on March 29, 2023 
under no. D. 23 -0178 (pages 411 to 412 and 263 to 325, 
respectively),
 –  the parent company financial statements of Capgemini SE 
and the Statutory auditors’ report on the parent company 
financial statements set out in the Universal Registration 
Document filed on March 29, 2023 under no. D. 23 -0178 
(pages 330 to 357),
 –  the Statutory auditors’ special report on related -party 
agreements, set out in the Universal Registration 
Document filed on March 29, 2023 under no. D. 23 -0178 
(page 358);  —  relating to the year ended December 31, 2021:
 –  the Management Report, consolidated financial 
statements and the Statutory auditors’ report on 
the consolidated financial statements, set out in the 
Universal Registration Document filed on March 28, 2022 
under no. D. 22 -0169 (pages 407 to 408 and 237 to 302, 
respectively),
 –  the parent company financial statements of Capgemini SE 
and the Statutory auditors’ report on the parent company 
financial statements set out in the Universal Registration 
Document filed on March 28, 2022 under no. D. 22 -0169 
(pages 306 to 333),
 –  the Statutory auditors’ special report on related -party 
agreements, set out in the Universal Registration 
Document filed on March 28, 2022 under no. D. 22 -0169 
(page 334).
Copies of the Universal Registration Document are available from 
Capgemini SE, 11 rue de Tilsitt, 75017 Paris, on its corporate website 
at http://investors.capgemini.com , and on the AMF website at 
www.amf-france.org .

AddITIonAL InF orMATIon
Persons responsible for the information
434
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT883  Persons responsible for the information
831  Person responsible for the Universal Registration Document
Aiman e ZZAT
Chief Executive Officer
11, rue de Tilsitt, 75017 Paris
832  Declaration by the person responsible for the Universal Registration 
Document
“I hereby declare that the information contained in this Universal Registration Document is, to the best of my knowledge, in accordance 
with the facts and contains no omission likely to affect its import.
I hereby declare that, to the best of my knowledge, the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the applicable 
accounting standards and give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and results of the Company and all the other 
companies included in the scope of consolidation, and that the information provided in the Management Report listed in Chapter 9, 
Section 9.3 gives a fair description of the material events, results and financial position of the Company and all the other companies 
included in the scope of consolidation, as well as a description of the main risks and contingencies with which the Company may be 
confronted.”
Paris, March 29, 202 4
Aiman e ZZAT
Chief Executive Officer
833  Persons responsible for the audit of the financial statements
Principal Statutory auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit
Member of the Compagnie Régionale des Commissaires  
aux Comptes de Versailles ,
63, rue de Villiers, 92208 Neuilly-Sur-Seine Cedex,  
represented by Ms. Itto El Hariri  
and Mr. Romain Dumont
Date of first appointment: at the Ordinary Shareholders’ 
Meeting of May 24, 1996
Current term expires at the close of the Ordinary Shareholders’ 
Meeting held to approve the 2025 financial statements.MAZArs
Member of the Compagnie Régionale des Commissaires  
aux Comptes de Versailles ,
Tour Exaltis, 61, rue Henri Regnault, 92400 Courbevoie, 
represented by Ms. Anne-Laure Rousselou  
and Mr. Dominique Muller
Date of first appointment: at the Ordinary Shareholders’ 
Meeting of May 20, 2020
Current term expires at the close of the Ordinary Shareholders’ 
Meeting held to approve the 2025 financial statements.
834  Person responsible for financial information
nive B hAGAT
Chief Financial Officer
11, rue de Tilsitt, 75017 Paris
Tel.: + 33 (0)1 47 54 50 00

435
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI991 ——  INFORMATION REQUIRED BY ANNEX I OF DELEGATED REGULATION (EU) 2019/980 OF 
MARCH 14, 2019  436
92 ——  CROSS‑REFERENCE TABLE FOR THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT  438
93 ——  CROSS‑REFERENCE TABLE FOR THE MANAGEMENT REPORT  439CROSS-REFERENCE  
TABLE

CROSS-REFERENCE T ABLE
Information required by Annex I of delegated regulation (eu) 2019/980 of March 14, 2019
436
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT991  Information required by Annex I of Delegated 
Regulation (EU) 2019/980 of March 14, 2019
 universal r egistration d ocument page
1 PERSONS RESPONSIBLE 434
2 STATUTORY AUDITORS 434
3 RISK FACTORS 117 to 134
4 INFORMATION ABOUT THE ISSUER  
 History of the Company  
 Legal and commercial name of the issuer 430
 Place of registration and registration number of the issuer 431
 Date of incorporation and length of life of the issuer 430
 Domicile and legal form of the issuer, legislation under which the issuer operates, its country 
of incorporation, and the address and telephone number of its registered office430
5 BUSINESS OVERVIEW  
 Principal activities 8 to 9
 Principal markets 12 to 14
 Important events in the development of the issuer’s business 25 to 29
 Strategy and objectives 17 to 20
 Information of dependency on patents/licenses, industrial, commercial or financial contracts 
or new manufacturing processes15 to 16
 Information regarding the issuer’s competitive position 14
 Investments 21
6 ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE  
 Brief description of the Group and position of the issuer 21 to 22
 List of significant subsidiaries 22 and 362
7 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 272 to 276 and 337 to 338
8 CAPITAL RESOURCES  
 Information concerning capital resources 294 to 302, 339 to 340, 347 to 354, 
370 to 375 and 378 to 379
 Cash flows 280 and 318 to 320
 Information on the borrowing requirements and funding structure of the issuer 314 to 318 and 328
 Restrictions on the use of capital resources N/A
 Explanation of funding sources 21
9 REGULATORY ENVIRONMENT 126 to 128
10 TREND INFORMATION N/A
11 PROFIT FORECASTS OR ESTIMATES N/A
12 ADMINISTRATIVE, MANAGEMENT AND SUPERVISORY BODIES  
AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT35 to 71, 72 to 84  
and 432 to 433
13 REMUNERATION AND BENEFITS 85 to 107 and 329
14 BOARD PRACTICES  
 Terms of office members of administrative, management or supervisory bodies 48 to 66
 Information about members of the administrative, management or  
supervisory bodies’ service contracts with the issuer47 and 68
 Information about the issuer’s Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee 80 to 82
 Statement on Corporate Governance 34, 36 to 38, 72 to 74,  
100 to 116 and 432
 Potential material impacts on Corporate Governance N/A

CROSS-REFERENCE T ABLE
Information required by Annex I of delegated regulation (eu) 2019/980 of March 14, 2019
437
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI9 universal r egistration d ocument page
15 EMPLOYEES  
 Number of employees201 to 203, 274 and 327
 
 Employee share ownership and performance shares 105 to 107, 200 to 201, 205, 237, 
294 to 302, 347 to 354  
and 373 to 375  
 Description of arrangements for involving the employees in the capitalN/A
16 MAJOR SHAREHOLDERS 
 Identification of major shareholders 375, 378 to 379
 Existence of different voting rights 432
 Control of the issuer 378 to 379
 Description of arrangements which may result in a change in control of the issuer N/A
17 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS 21 to 22, 46 to 47, 367, 329 and 
361
18 FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING THE ISSUER’S ASSETS AND LIABILITIES, 
FINANCIAL POSITION AND PROFITS AND LOSSES 
 Historical financial information 30, 368 and 433
 Interim and other financial information N/A
 Auditing of historical annual financial information 332 to 336, 363 to 366 and 433
 Financial statements 277 to 331 and 341 to 362
 Dividend policy 338, 377 to 378 and 431
 Legal proceedings and arbitration 127, 241 and 326
 Significant change in the financial position No significant change in 2023
19 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION  
 Share capital  
 Amount of issued capital 370
 Shares not representing capital 373
 Shares held by the issuer 345 to 346 and 378 to 381
 Convertible securities, exchangeable securities or securities with warrants N/A
 History of share capital 370
 Incorporating document and bylaws  
 Issuer’s objects and purposes 430
 Description of the rights, preferences and restrictions attaching to  
each class of the existing shares432
 Description of any provision that would have an effect of delaying,  
deferring or preventing a change in control of the issuer432
20 MATERIAL CONTRACTS OTHER THAN CONTRACTS ENTERED INTO IN THE NORMAL 
COURSE OF BUSINESSN/A
21 DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE 431
N/A: not applicable.

CROSS-REFERENCE T ABLE
Cross-reference Table for the Annual Financial report
438
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT992  Cross-Reference Table for the Annual Financial Report
In order to assist readers of this Universal Registration Document, 
the following Cross-Reference Table identifies the information 
comprising the Annual Financial Report that must be published 
by listed companies in accordance with Article L. 451 -1-2 of the French Monetary and Financial Code and Article 222 -3 of the 
Autorité des marchés financiers (AMF, French Financial Markets 
Authority) general regulations.
 document required  universal r egistration d ocument page
1 Company annual financial statements 341 to 362
2 Consolidated financial statements 277 to 331
3 Management Report (within the meaning of the French Commercial Code) 439 to 440
4 Declaration by the person responsible for the Annual Financial Report 434
5 Statutory auditors’ report on the Company financial statements 363 to 366
6 Statutory auditors’ report on the consolidated financial statements 332 to 336

CROSS-REFERENCE T ABLE
Cross-reference Table for the Management report
439
2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT  CAPGEMINI993  Cross-Reference Table for the Management Report
Information required   universal r egistration d ocument page
Situation and activity of the Group  
Analysis of changes in the business, results and the financial position of the Company and the Group 272 to 276 and 337 to 338
Key performance indicators 30
Major events between the year end and the date of preparation of the Management Report 329 and 361
Developments and outlook for the future 276
Research and development N/A
Expenses and charges stipulated in Article 223 quater of the French General Tax Code N/A
Supplier settlement periods 337
Acquisitions of investments or controlling interests during the fiscal year in companies  
whose registered office is located in France285
Subsidiaries and investments 330 to 331 and 362
Description of the main risks 113 to 133
Financial risks due to climate change 134 and 157 to 161
Internal control and risk management procedures implemented by the Company 110 to 116
Report of the Board of Directors on Corporate Governance  
Organization of Group Management activities 36 to 38
List of all terms of offices and duties held in any company by each corporate officer  
during the last fiscal year51 to 66
Composition, preparation and organization of the work of the Board of Directors 39 to 47 and 72 to 84
Application of the principle of balanced representation of men and women on  
the Board of Directors39
Diversity policy applied to members of the Board of Directors 39 to 40
Limits brought by the Board of Directors on Chief Executive Officer’s powers 37 to 38
Reference to a Code of Corporate Governance and application of the principle comply or explain 34 and 73 to 74
2022 compensation of Corporate Officers 92 to 107
Corporate Officer compensation policy 86 to 92
Commitments of any kind made by the Company for the benefit of its Executive Corporate 
Officers47
Agreements between a corporate officer or a major shareholder and a subsidiary 47
Use of the option to demand repayment of variable compensation 102
Ratio of the compensation of each Executive Corporate Officer to average and median 
compensation of company employees102 to 103
Annual trends in compensation, company performance, average company employee 
compensation and the above ratios over the past five years104
Explanation of the way total compensation complies with the compensation policy adopted, 
including how it contributes to the Company’s long -term performance and the way performance 
criteria are applied86 to 92
Grant of free shares to Executive Corporate Officers and their retention 89
Specific conditions governing shareholders’ attendance at Shareholders’ Meetings 431
Summary table of delegations of authority currently in force granted by the Shareholders’ 
Meeting relating to an increase in capital371 to 372
Assessment procedure for ordinary agreements – Implementation 46
Factors affecting a potential takeover bid 432

CROSS-REFERENCE T ABLE
Cross-reference Table for the Management report
440
CAPGEMINI  2023 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT9Information required  universal r egistration d ocument page
Information on the share capital  
Structure, change in Company share capital and threshold notifications 339 to 340, 370  
and 375 to 379
Employee share ownership 373 to 375
Summary of transactions carried out by members of the Board of Directors and  
other senior managers and related persons in the company’s shares71
Buyback by the Company of its own shares 380 to 381
Information on share subscription options granted to Executive Corporate Officers and 
employees89, 105 to 107,  
294 to 302, 347 to 354  
and 373 to 375
Information on free share grants to Executive Corporate Officers 89, 105 to 107,  
294 to 302, 347 to 354  
and 373 to 375
Dividends and other revenue distributed during the past three fiscal years 338 and 377 to 378
Statement on Non-Financial Performance 18 to 19, 134  
and 139 to 269
Anti -corruption policy238 to 240
Vigilance plan and report on its effective implementation251 to 253
Other information 
Table of the Company results over the past five fiscal years 368
Supplementary report of the Board of Directors on issuance of shares under the Group employee 
share ownership plan416 to 419
N/A: not applicable.
Design and production: Agence Marc Praquin

2023 INTEGRATED
ANNUAL REP ORT
Partner for a digital and sustainable world
2023
UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION
DOCUMENT
Partner for a digital and sustainable world
2023 INTEGRATED
ANNUAL REP ORT
Partner for a digital and sustainable world
DISCOVER THE DIGITAL VERSION 
OF OUR 2023 REPORTS
THE INTEGRATED 
ANNUAL REPORT
Presents the key  
events of the past year.  
It describes how 
Capgemini’s talent, 
innovation, sustainable 
actions, strategy  
and governance create 
 long-term financial and 
extra-financial value.
THE UNIVERSAL 
REGISTRATION 
DOCUMENT
Provides complete legal, 
economic, financial,  
and accounting 
information about 
our activities, together 
with analysis of the 
company’s results 
and future prospects.
Our website
capgemini.comInvestors section
investors.
capgemini.comCareers section
capgemini.com/
careersNews
capgemini.com/
newsCSR
capgemini.com/
about-us/csrADDITIONAL RESOURCESreports.capgemini.comCONNECT
WITH US
Cover & Illustrations : Anne-Margot Ramstein — https://www.anne-margot.com



